
Fully aware that tomorrow's jetoff would multiply by eight the
hangovers they were breeding, Captain Barnaby and Lieutenant Kim sat
that evening in the Denver Dive, alternating drinks of European vodka
with rounds of California moon-dew. As Kim said: "Drink as much as you
like, Barnaby; we're not driving in the morning."

"Tell me," Barnaby demanded of his co-pilot, "what you're thinking of,
you Martie-roasting fiend of a Korean."

"I was considering the memory of the 'shlunk!' that Martian murderer's
skull made when it finally gave in, that day at Klamugra. Do you
remember, hard-headed Yankee?" Kim's eyes followed the blonde ecdysiast
across the stage more from habit than present interest.

"Why did you have to remember that? 'Shlunk!'--ugh!"

"We're going to have to squirm out of this, Barnaby-_sunsang_," Kim
said. "We'll have to beat that rap at Klamugra. It's not that I wish to
avoid putting my head in a vise; it's only that it hurts me to see the
Extraterrestrial Service made a monkey of this way. In a way it will
even be a shame if we get off. Think of all the Marties who will miss
the opportunity to see your punkin head smashed."

"You orientals have noble souls, Kim."

The blonde stripper, having uncovered as much of herself as she could
without resorting to dissection, jumped down from the stage and walked
over to the two EXTS officers. "Would you gentlemen like to buy me a
drink?" she asked.

Kim's eyes roved abroad in a brief anatomy lesson, but Barnaby said,
"I'll buy you one a couple of weeks from now, if I'm not laid up
somewhere with a splitting headache." He stood unsteadily and tossed a
ten-credit certificate on the table. "If you're really thirsty, get a
drink out of that."

Kim reluctantly followed his superior officer from the bar. At the door
he turned and called back to the blonde, "Don't catch cold, child. I'll
be back."
