
Row, row, row your boat, he sang in his mind, feeling the lapping
tongues of the cool lake water against his fingers, drifting, drifting,
under obeisant willows. Paula's hands were resting gently on his eyes
and he lifted them away. Then he kissed the soft palms and pressed them
on his cheek. When he opened his eyes, he was surprised to find that
the boat was a bed, the water only pelting rain against the window, and
the willow trees long shadows on the walls. Only Paula's hands were
real, solid and real and comforting against his face.

He grinned at her. "Funniest damn thing," he said. "For a minute there,
I thought we were back at Finger Lake. Remember that night we sprang a
leak? I'll never forget the way you looked when you saw the hem of your
dress."

"Andy," she said quietly. "Andy, do you know what's happened?"

He scratched his head. "Seems to me Doc Bernstein was in here a while
ago. Or was he? Didn't they jab me again or something?"

"It was a drug, Andy. Don't you remember? They have this new miracle
drug, senopoline. Dr. Bernstein told you about it, said it was worth
the try...."

"Oh, sure, I remember."

He sat up in bed, casually, as if sitting up in bed were an everyday
occurrence. He took a cigarette from the table beside him and lit one.
He smoked reflectively for a moment, and then recalled that he hadn't
been anything but horizontal for almost eight months. Swiftly, he put
his hand on his rib cage and touched the firm flesh.

"The girdle," he said wonderingly. "Where the hell's the girdle?"

"They took it off," Paula said tearfully. "Oh, Andy, they took it off.
You don't need it any more. You're healed, completely healed. It's a
miracle!"

"A miracle...."

She threw her arms about him; they hadn't held each other since the
accident a year ago, the accident that had snapped his spine in several
places. He had been twenty-two when it happened.
