
So it got to be Saturday morning. Fred and Claude phoned about the
fishing trip and I made an excuse. No one else bothered me. All day
Saturday, I studied. And all Saturday night and Sunday. But I couldn't
figure out any sensible answers that would make peace with my
minister.

It looked like I had created some form of life. Either that or some
life-form in the stove oil that had been asleep a billion years had
suddenly found a condition to its liking and had decided to give up
hibernating in favor of reproduction.

What drove me on was the thought that I must have something here that
was commercially important--a new culture of something that would
revolutionize some branch of chemistry or biology. I wouldn't even
stop to fry an egg. I chewed up some crackers and drank a few more
bottles of beer when my stomach got too noisy. I wasn't sleepy,
although my eyes felt like they were pushed four inches into my skull.

Junior's little chemistry set didn't tell me very much when I made the
few tests I knew how. Litmus paper remained either red or blue when
stuck into the jelly. This surprised me a little because this whole
mass of de-sudsed washing compound mixture had started out with a
pretty good shot of lye in it.

So my notes grew, but my useful information didn't. By midnight
Sunday, it appeared that my jelly invention had only one important
talent: The ability to drink endlessly anything containing water. And
only the water was used, it seemed. Dissolved solids were cast aside
in the form of variously colored dusts.

By now, the goop had outgrown the pail and was two-thirds up in the
laundry tub. A slow drip from the faucet kept the surface of my
monster in a constant state of frenzy, like feeding a rumpot beer by
the thimbleful.

It was fascinating to watch the little curleycues of jelly flip up
after each drop, reaching for more, and then falling back with a
cranky little lash.
