
A chill coursed through me. Her arms were rigid and she seemed almost
weightless. Alarmed, I rose, grasped her wrists and eased her gently
down into the chair.

She just sat there staring up at me, her face a petrified mask and her
body so utterly still that it did something to sound. In place of the
faint susurrous which occupied space gives forth the chair seemed to be
enveloped in a kind of auditory vacuum which chilled me to the core of
my being.

I can't remember how long I stood there with horror slapping at my
brain like the tides of some cold, dead moon. I only know that I turned
at last and went stumbling from her presence with one thought uppermost
in my mind.

I must get medical aid to her quickly, before that trance could deepen,
before it could endanger her life.

Going up in the jacket-lift to the sick bay I kept visualizing Ned
Dawson's face. Dawson was a strong-jawed, competent physician with
years of experience behind him and I was sure he would know what to do.

He was usually in the sick bay attending to the many little sprains
and bruises the men brought in with them from the crust. There was a
flicker of violet light as the jacket-lift hummed to a stop. I stepped
out and raced down a cold-lighted passageway to the "drug shop," my
breath coming fast.

On meta-glass chairs amidst a faint odor of antiseptics two men sat
frozen, but I thought they were asleep. I went straight through the
waiting space with scarcely a glance at them, and burst into the sick
bay unannounced.

Dawson was there all right, but he was bent nearly double, frozen in
the act of applying a gauze bandage to the badly cut ankle of a miner
who stood contemplating his navel like a schizophrene, his head sunken
on his chest.
