



There are exceptions to almost every rule and Xenon was one of them.
The rule in this particular case was the old cataloguers' adage that
cataloguing duty was never pleasant, often dangerous and always hard.
Xenon is the fourth planet of one of the stars investigated some seven
or eight years ago by the battleship _Terra_ on her swing around the
edge of the Black Hole.

Unequipped for exploration, the _Terra_ hadn't bothered to land on the
planet, but instead had taken only the usual gravitational and
atmosphere readings and then had continued on her long mapping patrol.
She had slowed just long enough to send back her report on tight beam
to Venus Relay Station and propose the name of Xenon, "the unknown."
After all, a planet with point nine Earth gravity and almost twenty
per cent oxygen in its atmosphere was well worth a name rather than a
number.

About a year later, the preliminary exploration ship arrived and spent
several weeks mapping and testing this, that and the other thing.
Then she went home and wrote her report--and what a report it was! The
thing read like a Chamber of Commerce bulletin that had been sponsored
by a subdivider. All it needed was a couple of ads offering some
choice business locations for sale and it would have been complete.

The planet was perfect, the climate was perfect, the soil fertile.
There were no natives or hostile life to bother a man. The forests
were wide, the plains were broad and the numerous rivers were not only
full of fish but also emptied into blue seas that were just as full of
fish as the rivers. That report was enough to make a man quit his job
and go to Xenon to start a chicken ranch or grow oranges.
