
George Stonery was tall, thin, stooped and anxious in a gray business
suit.

"I came as soon as I could," he told Sheriff Breen across the scarred,
paper-littered wooden desk. "I was away checking one of our warehouses."

"You can make bail for her in two minutes, right across the hall," the
sheriff said, scratching his jowl. "She wouldn't make it for herself,
said we had to lock her in our sputnik."

"Where is she now?"

"In the sputnik."

The desk phone rang and the sheriff growled into it, "Hell you say.
State forty-three just past Roy Farm? Right. I s'pose you already heard
what we had on the lawn here this morning?"

The phone gave forth an excited gobbling. The sheriff's red eyebrows
rose in disbelief and his heavy jaw dropped in dismay. He put down the
phone.

"That was city," he told Stonery. "Complaint about a dog hanging
by one leg from a tree just outside city limits. But it's going
on all over town too--dogs hanging on trees, out of windows, off
clotheslines--every squad car is out. Your old lady sure started
something!"

"What did she _do_?" Stonery asked in anguish.

The sheriff told him. "Kicked a big fat deputy where it hurts, too.
Maybe we ought to hold her after all. She says she's president of the
United Dogs of something."

"United Dames of the Dog," the thin man corrected. "They hold meetings
and things. She started it when the Russians put up their second
sputnik."

"Well, I hope none of them dames lives out in the county," the sheriff
said, rising. "You fix up bail, Mr. Stonery. I got to send out a
deputy."

Walking past the flagpole with her husband, Martha Stonery wore an
exalted look.

"All over America dogs will cry out in protest against the Russian
crime," she said. "I have kindled a flame, George, that will sweep away
the Kremlin. I, a weak woman...."

She insisted on driving herself home in her new station wagon.
