
"It was in the second quadrant of the galaxy as charted by Roa-Pitin,
the outer spiral arm we call Evarion; our hydrogen radiation equipment
had been receiving an exciting pattern of signals since our journey had
begun. Of course, we weren't the first exploration team to be lured by
those signals, countless others had dashed themselves to pieces for
that electronic siren song. We employed every navigational device we
knew to put us within range of the strongest beams, but the fact that
we succeeded can only be described as an accident--or the will of a
power greater than anything we know."

Ky-Tann looked narrow-eyed. "A Super-Being?"

"A Super-Memory," Deez said. "Let's call it that. At any rate, our
equipment fixed on a star of low magnitude with a nine-planet system.
Simple calculation of distances and spectroscopic readings eliminated
all but one of the worlds as suitable for exploration. It was the
third planet in relative distance from its sun. But we felt no unusual
expectation as we prepared for landfall; the closer we came, the more
we recognized the bleak, airless type of world that has become so
familiar to the exploration ships of Illyri that we call them nothing
more than cosmic debris.

"We made our landing on the ledge of a gigantic basin that might
once have been the container for a vast ocean. Gi-Linn, our ship's
scientist, was convinced by the configuration of its floor that the
planet had once been blessed with water, air, and in all probability,
some form of life. He speculated that the vanished ocean might have
once teemed with creatures as those we discovered on Vosa. He was
doubtful, however, that life forms had become more advanced than
Vosa's. Gi-Linn has a way of leaping to conclusions, a smug fellow. I
was pleased to see him proved wrong.
