
On a balmy June evening, in the Spring of 1973, Dr. Carl Woodward
opened his front door on a new era. The man who stood on his
doorstep--Woodward never thought of Borsu as anything but a "man"--wore
a sleeveless tunic that glistened like snake-skin. He was holding
something in his hands, as if proferring it, a foot-square metallic box
with rounded corners and a diamond-shaped screen that showed a moving
tracery of spidery-thin lines.

Woodward was sixty-one. He had been a naval surgeon in two wars, and
had lost a leg during the Inchon landing. He had survived the loss, but
a treacherous heart condition forced his retirement. He chose a small
village in Eastern Pennsylvania. He lived with a dog and a thousand
books. Borsu, the alien, could not have chanced on a better host that
night.

"Yes, what is it?" Woodward said. When no answer came, the doctor
realized that his visitor expected him to watch the screen. He did.
The lines wavered, shifted, blurred in their excitation, but conveyed
nothing. Panacea, Woodward's aging beagle, finally came out of his warm
bed near the furnace and set up a furious barking.

"Pan!" Woodward snapped. "Shut up, you mutt! Look, mister, perhaps if
you came inside--"

Then his eyes became adjusted to the diamond-shaped screen; he saw
a picture. The scene was a forest; there was the gleam of crumpled
metal, and a prostrate figure lying on the leaf-strewn floor. It was
the portrait of an accident, and Woodward was intuitive enough to know
that the man in the doorway had come for help.

"You want me to come with you, is that it?" he said. "Is your friend
hurt? How did it happen?"
