"Champ, what's with ya lately?" Benny asked the question as they lay on
the beach.

"Nothing," Frankie answered. "Just fight-nite miseries, I guess."

"No it ain't, Frankie. It's something else. You losin' confidence in
Milt? That it? Can't you hold it one more time? You guys only need
tonite and you got it. One more to make Ten-Time Defenders--the first
in the game, Frankie."

"We won the last two on points, Benny. Points--and I'm better than that.
I keep waiting, and waiting, for my heels to set; for Milt to send it up
my legs and back and let fly. But he won't do it, Benny."

"Look, Champ, Milt knows what he's doing. He's sending you right. You
think maybe you know as much as Milt?"

"Maybe I just do, Benny. Maybe I do."

Benny didn't have the answer to this heresy. By law this was Frankie's
last fight--as a fighter. If he won this one and became a Ten-Time
Defender he would have his pick of the youngsters at the Boxing College,
just as Milt had chosen him fifteen years before. For fifteen years he'd
never thrown a punch of his own in a fight ring.

Maybe because it was his last fight in the ring he felt the way he did
today. He understood, of course, why fighters were mentally controlled
by proved veterans. By the time a fighter had any real experience and
know-how in the old days, his body was shot. Now the best bodies and
the best brains were teamed by mental control.

Benny had an answer now. "Champ, I think it's a good thing this is your
last fight. You know too much. After this one you'll have a good strong
boy of your own and you can try some of this stuff you've been learning.
Milt knows you're no kid anymore. That's why he has to be careful with
you."

"I still have it, Benny. My speed, my punch, my timing--all good. There
were a dozen times in those last two fights I could have crossed a right
and gone home early."

"Two times, Frankie. Just two times. And them late in the fight. Milt
didn't think you had it, and I don't think you did either."
