
Time passed. Nothing happened. He wondered, if he'd missed on the time
element. The men should certainly have come to work now. More than once
he was tempted to push the barrel lid aside and check the situation.
When footsteps sounded, close by, and the lid snapped firmly into place,
he was glad he hadn't done so. Good old Nick! When he got back from the
Moon, he'd see to it that Nick got credit for his courageous act.

Soon the barrel began to move. Joe felt it rise into the air and settle
with a thump. Then the motor of a truck roared and Joe knew where he was
going. Straight toward Building A and the Moon rocket. There was more
movement until finally the barrel was set down for what appeared to be
the last time. Joe put the nose-piece of the oxygen tube into place and
visualized himself safe and snug in a storage room of the rocket.

He closed his eyes and went peacefully to sleep.

He slept a long time, to be awakened by a crushing--a wrenching--that
all but drove his head down into his spine. The pain brought him sharply
alert. He knew instantly what had happened.

_Blast-off._

He braced himself against the sides of the barrel, and gritted his
teeth.

Soon it was better. Then no pressure at all. Only the fierce happiness
on his heart. He'd set a course and won through! He was on the way to
the Moon!

Joe let plenty of time elapse. He knew it was well over an hour later
when he unlimbered the torch to cut an escape-hole in the barrel. This,
he knew, would be tricky. He could easily burn himself. The heat would
be intense.

But it wasn't too bad. The aluminum cut quickly, and in a matter of
minutes he was standing beside his barrel. As he'd suspected, it was a
storage hold. The pitch-darkness did not bother him. He'd come prepared
with a small pencil flash that threw an adequate beam.

He found the door, opened it and went out into a long passageway....
