
When the Travelers from Outer Space, who were a team of historians
doing research on the history of life throughout the Universe, listened
to the tape recording, their "ears" heard none of the program as it had
been originally broadcast. They were no less fascinated, however, for
what they heard was the thought patterns of the people who had been
connected with the program. These thoughts, in the form of electrical
impulses, were also recorded on the magnetic surface of the tape, and
were the only sounds audible to the Travelers.

What a pity these future historians didn't get mankind's version of
the life of mankind in 1960, after the producers had gone to so much
trouble to tie it up in a package for them. Their conception of Earth
culture was based on the thought impulses they "heard", and their
History of Earth was written accordingly. The last paragraph is worth
noting:

"In the main, it is quite fortunate for life in the Universe that these
primitive people destroyed themselves before they learned how to leave
their planet. Lustful, murderous and guilt-ridden, they are perhaps the
worst examples of intelligent life that we have ever discovered. And
yet, paradox supreme, they had one quality that we ourselves would do
well to emulate. That quality we can only surmise, for nothing on the
recording spoke of it, yet it is obvious, for if they hadn't had this
quality, there would have been no recording left for us at all.

"_How strange that these tortured people should practise an
unparalleled example of Life's highest achievement ... complete honesty
with themselves and others._"



