
A thief, he was about to die like a thief.

He hung from the post by his wrists. The wan sunlight glistened faintly
on his naked back as he waited, eyes tightly closed, lips moving slowly
as he pressed his face against the rough wood and stood on tiptoe to
relieve the growing ache in his shoulders. When his ankles ached, he
hung by the nails that pierced his forearms just above the wrists.

He was young, perhaps in his tenth Marsyear, and his crisp black hair
was close-cropped in the fashion of the bachelor who had not yet sired
a pup, or not yet admitted that he had. Lithe and sleek, with the quick
knotty muscles and slender rawhide limbs of a wild thing, half-fed and
hungry with a quick furious hunger that crouched in ambush. His face,
though twisted with pain and fright, remained that of a cocky pup.

When he opened his eyes he could see the low hills of Mars, sun-washed
and gray-green with trees, trees brought down from the heavens by
the Ancient Fathers. But he could also see the executioner in the
foreground, sitting spraddle-legged and calm while he chewed a blade
of grass and waited. A squat man with a thick face, he occasionally
peered at the thief with empty blue eyes--while he casually played
mumblety-peg with the bleeding-blade. His stare was blank.

[Illustration: "_Are you ready for me, Asir?_"]

"Ready for me yet, Asir?" he grumbled, not unpleasantly.

The knifeman sat beyond spitting range, but Asir spat, and tried to
wipe his chin on the post. "Your dirty mother!" he mumbled.

The executioner chuckled and played mumblety-peg.

After three hours of dangling from the spikes that pierced his arms,
Asir was weakening, and the blood throbbed hard in his temples, with
each jolt of his heart a separate pulse of pain. The red stickiness had
stopped oozing down his arms; they knew how to drive the spike just
right. But the heartbeats labored in his head like a hammer beating at
red-hot iron.

_How many heartbeats in a life-time--and how many left to him now?_

He whimpered and writhed, beginning to lose all hope. Mara had gone to
see the Chief Commoner, to plead with him for the pilferer's life--but
Mara was about as trustworthy as a wild h√ºffen, and he had visions of
them chuckling together in Tokra's villa over a glass of amber wine,
while life drained slowly from a young thief.

Asir regretted nothing. His father had been a renegade before him, had
squandered his last ritual formula to buy a wife, then impoverished,
had taken her away to the hills. Asir was born in the hills, but he
came back to the village of his ancestors to work as a servant and
steal the rituals of his masters. No thief could last for long. A
ritual-thief caused havoc in the community. The owner of a holy phrase,
not knowing that it had been stolen, tried to spend it--and eventually
counter-claims would come to light, and a general accounting had to be
called. The thief was always found out.

Asir had stolen more than wealth, he had stolen the strength of their
souls. For this they hung him by his wrists and waited for him to beg
for the bleeding-blade.

    _Woman thirsts for husband,
    Man thirsts for wife,
    Baby thirsts for breast-milk
    Thief thirsts for knife...._

A rhyme from his childhood, a childish chant, an eenie-meenie-miney for
determining who should drink first from a nectar-cactus. He groaned and
tried to shift his weight more comfortably. Where was Mara?
