
Asir closed his eyes and gritted his teeth. "Give it to me!" he yelped
suddenly, and braced himself against the post.

Why not? The short time gained couldn't be classed as living. Have it
done with. Eternity would be sweet in comparison to this ignomy. A
knife could be a blessing.

He heard the executioner chuckle and stand up. He heard the man's
footsteps approaching slowly, and the singing hiss of the knife as
Slubil swung it in quick arcs. The executioner moved about him slowly,
teasing him with the whistle of steel fanning the air about him. He was
expected to beg. Slubil occasionally laid the knife against his skin
and took it away again. Then Asir heard the rustle of the executioner's
cloak as his arm went back. Asir opened his eyes.

The executioner grinned as he held the blade high--aimed at Asir's
head! The girl had tricked him. He groaned and closed his eyes again,
muttering a half-forgotten prayer.

The stroke fell--and the blade chopped into the post above his head.
Asir fainted.

When he awoke he lay in a crumpled heap on the ground. The executioner
rolled him over with his foot.

"In view of your extreme youth, thief," the knifeman growled, "the
council has ordered you perpetually banished. The sun is setting. Let
dawn find you in the hills. If you return to the plains, you will be
chained to a wild h√ºffen and dragged to death."

Panting weakly, Asir groped at his forehead, and found a fresh wound,
raw and rubbed with rust to make a scar. Slubil had marked him as an
outcast. But except for the nail-holes through his forearms, he was
still in one piece. His hands were numb, and he could scarcely move
his fingers. Slubil had bound the spike-wounds, but the bandages were
bloody and leaking.

When the knifeman had gone, Asir climbed weakly to his feet. Several
of the townspeople stood nearby, snickering at him. He ignored their
catcalls and staggered toward the outskirts of the village, ten minutes
away. He had to speak to Mara, and to her father if the crusty oldster
would listen. His thief's knowledge weighed upon him and brought
desperate fear.

Darkness had fallen by the time he came to Welkir's house. The people
spat at him in the streets, and some of them flung handfuls of loose
dirt after him as he passed. A light flickered feebly through Welkir's
door. Asir rattled it and waited.

Welkir came with a lamp. He set the lamp on the floor and stood with
feet spread apart, arms folded, glaring haughtily at the thief. His
face was stiff as weathered stone. He said nothing, but only stared
contemptuously.

Asir bowed his head. "I have come to plead with you, Senior Kinsman."

Welkir snorted disgust. "Against the mercy we have shown you?"

He looked up quickly, shaking his head. "No! For that I am grateful."

"What then?"

"As a thief, I acquired much wisdom. I know that the world is dying,
and the air is boiling out of it into the sky. I wish to be heard by
the council. We must study the words of the ancients and perform their
magic, lest our children's children be born to strangle in a dead
world."

Welkir snorted again. He picked up the lamp. "He who listens to a
thief's wisdom is cursed. He who acts upon it is doubly cursed and a
party to the crime."

"The vaults," Asir insisted. "The key to the Blaze of the Winds is in
the vaults. The god Roggins tells us in the words--"

"Stop! I will not hear!"

"Very well, but the blaze can be rekindled, and the air renewed. The
vaults--" He stammered and shook his head. "The council must hear me."

"The council will hear nothing, and you shall be gone before dawn. And
the vaults are guarded by the sleeper called Big Joe. To enter is to
die. Now go away."
