
_The ruby rolled across the table and fell to the floor._

He smiled as he picked the ruby up from the floor. He estimated
that he'd lived more than twenty years in ten-minute intervals, and
therefore the trap was not a death-trap. He'd discovered countless ways
of fighting boredom and knew he would never succumb to it and resultant
insanity. He had entered the other apartments by using the stone ledge
and breaking through the windows. In them he had found a total of
hundreds of books ... a pair of binoculars that he used to study a
multitude of new things from his window ... a typewriter that he used
to write books although there was never a completed manuscript ... a
chess set ... decks of cards ... hobbies....

There were many more possibilities that he hadn't explored yet and he
realized that the Martian had given him a valuable gift: extra years of
life.

It seemed incredible that a machine could operate continuously for
twenty years, but the ancient Martians had been expert in constructing
devices without moving parts. He knew little science, but he could
vaguely imagine a sort of "gateway" to the space-time continuum that
the removal of the ruby had opened. Perhaps during a ten-minute period
a predetermined amount of energy passed through the "gateway" and
flowed against a radioactive substance in a way and with a force that
thrust a few atoms backward in time to the point when the energy didn't
exist and that established the cycle.

With moving parts, the machine wouldn't have run continuously for
twenty years. _Something_ would have broken down. Even without moving
parts, the machine wouldn't run forever; the materials themselves would
deteriorate sooner or later, or the energy passing through them from
the space-time continuum would gradually disintegrate them no matter
how strong they were. But for as long as the device operated, he would
live without growing old. If it ran a hundred years, he would live _a
hundred years_....
