



Pop Ganlon was no hero--he was only a spaceman. A spaceman and a
father. In fact, Pop was rather no-account, even in a profession that
abounded with drifters. He had made a meagre living prospecting
asteroids and hauling light freight and an occasional passenger out
in the Belt Region. Coffee and cakes, nothing more. Not many people
knew Pop had a son in the Patrol, and even fewer knew it when the boy
was blasted to a cinder in a back alley in Lower Marsport.

Pop went on eating and breathing, but his life was over after that. He
hit the bottle a little harder and his ship, _The Luck_, grew rustier
and tackier, and those were the only outward signs that Pop Ganlon was
a living dead man. He kept on grubbing among the cold rocks and
pushing _The Luck_ from Marsport to Callisto and back with whatever
low-mass payloads he could pick up. He might have lived out his string
of years like that, obscure and alone, if it hadn't been for John
Kane. Kane was Pop Ganlon's ticket to a sort of personal
immortality--if there is such a thing for an old spaceman.

It was in Yakki, down-canal from Marsport, that Kane found Pop. There
is a small spaceport there--a boneyard, really--for buckets whose
skippers can't pay the heavy tariff imposed by the big ramp. All the
wrecks nest there while waiting hopefully for a payload or a
grubstake. They have all of Solis Lacus for a landing field, and if
they spill it doesn't matter much. The drifting red sands soon cover
up the scattered shards of dural and the slow, lonely life of Yakki
goes on like before.

The Patrol was on Kane's trail and the blaster in his hand was still
warm when he shoved it up against Pop Ganlon's ribs and made his
proposition.

He wanted to get off Mars--out to Callisto. To Blackwater, to Ley's
Landing, it didn't matter too much. Just off Mars, and quickly. His
eyes had a metallic glitter and his hand was rock-steady. Pop knew he
meant what he said when he told him life was cheap. Someone else's
life, not Kane's.
