
“The morning the sun rose clear. But Lavelle could not get atop that
mesa again. The cloudburst had sheered away the approaches, like a
hydraulic stream, and washed them down as mud and gravel. The mesa rose
rimrocked and precipitous, like a biscuit to an ant. He hallooed and
got no answer. One horse had broken its tether; he rode the other to a
near-by ridge and gazed across. He could see the girl lying white and
motionless. His hawk eyes told him that she was dead. So, being a
coward in heart, he made off at speed. He quit the country altogether,
changed his name, drifted down into border Arizona, and was shot at a
gambling table in Tombstone some forty years ago. The girl, you see,”
said I, “has been lying here ever since, the half coin--that half coin
of promise in her fingers, waiting for you and your understanding.”

“But,” he cried fiercely, “you say so. You weave a story. How am I to
know? Where is your proof? Why should I believe? How does it
happen----?”

“Because,” I answered, “these bones and this half coin ‘happen’ to be
here; and you ‘happen’ to be my passenger; and we ‘happen’ to land
together upon this ‘God-forsaken’ spot. And my middle name,” said I,
“‘happens’ to be Lavelle, from the line of my grandfather who in his
private memoirs confessed to a great wrong.”

My old man plumped to his knees; he groped for the half coin. I left
him pressing it to his lips and babbling a name, and I went back to the
plane.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the February 1926 issue of
Weird Tales magazine.]


