
Derrence was immediately frightened. He fought it by telling himself he
was jumping to conclusions. There was no reason in the world to assume
that the man was a company spy, especially since Chester Chemical never
had been known to employ such methods.

He laughed. It was a rich, hearty, booming, self-confident laugh,
developed by means of long practice with a tape recorder. Hearing it,
he was able to form an answer. "Actually, Ed, Miss McCarty is the floor
manager. She assigns new offices ... as she did this one to you, right?"

"No. Mr. Chester said to choose any empty office that pleased me."

_Mr. Chester! The Founder himself!_

Derrence opened the door and waved his arm and chuckled and nodded and
exuded good will, and said, "See you, Ed."

"Der," Mr. Tzadi said, rising. He was extremely short; not more than
five feet, if that. "If Miss McCarty is floor manager, what are you?"

"No title, _per se_," Derrence said, and was horrified to hear his
shortness of breath, his panicked panting. He fought for control.
"I ... work with her. The arrangement is loose, informal, almost
unofficial. A typical Chester Company operation." He had the door open
now, and stepped through it sideways. "You'll soon learn what that
means, Ed. We all stay loose here. No rigid adherence to rules. No
frenzied competition. No sweat. Get it?"

Mr. Tzadi's face looked blank. He shook his head. "I am afraid not,
Der. Mr. Chester said that each employee has a position, a function, a
title, and performs within sharply defined areas. I am listed as Public
Relations Writer in the Personnel books. You too are listed as Public
Relations writer, eleven thousand dollars per annum."

A tortured laugh was forced from Derrence Cale. The man had revealed
himself as a company spy! Who else had access to the Personnel
records? He waved his arm again, said, "Simply must rush," and fled.
