
“Soup” Lannigan was not a gentleman—not by at least a generation or two.
He was a yegg, pure but not at all simple. Just now he slid back the
door of a freight car, wiped a little coal dust off his face and looked
around. Soup was not at all handsome. He was about five feet seven
inches tall, with broad shoulders, almost no neck, and a pair of long
muscular arms. His forehead retreated while his jaw protruded. If a
scientist were to discover Soup’s skull—it would date back at least
twenty thousand years.

It was hot in that box car, but it was also hot outside. Soup was
thirsty. He squinted back past the caboose, looking around like an
animal. Then he rubbed his eyes. Even at two cars distant his eyes
beheld a white-clad arm appear and toss a couple of bottles into the
sage.

Soup wrinkled his forehead in deep thought. He knew that there were no
dining-cars on freight trains. He also knew that this caboose did not
carry a white-clad porter. Soup swung warily down, edged away from the
car and squinted at the shiny private car. Then he ducked back.

There was nothing to cause Soup to duck back, except, like an animal, he
was always expecting something to happen. Then he crawled under the
train. Ten cars distant he could see the crew working over a hotbox. He
scuttled back. Just back of the private car was a sharp curve, and Soup
was wise enough in railroad matters to know that the rear brakeman would
be beyond that turn, flagging the rear.

Soup licked his lips, gripped the stubby automatic in his sagging coat
pocket, and went softly back to the platform of the Lake Louise. He felt
sure that there would be more cold bottles; and he was not averse to
taking most anything of value.
