
High over the valley came a keening note, drifting down the wind with a
strange, heterodyning effect. It rose and fell with a definite cadence,
as though it were a message.

Out of the murky darkness at the far end came a stirring; a gigantic
groping, as of a monstrous something responding sluggishly to the
call. Then, more swiftly, getting its bearings, the shadowed something
began moving forward, gaining purpose, gaining massiveness, gaining
speed. There was almost an anxious eagerness in its progress, as though
it were an appetite sensing a free meal. At the same time there was
something obscene in its haste, as though it anticipated more than
mere food.

High on the south wall of the valley, atop the ramparts of the City,
stood a figure in a red cloak, staring out over the valley's dark
depths. He was tall, saturnine, and his face, though darkly handsome,
was somehow malevolent, menacing, revolting. He was leering now, in
ghastly anticipation of something that was to occur at the base of the
cliffs at his feet. Behind him the keening of the Call still emanated
from the lips of the gory idol enthroned in the Temple. He shook a fist
at the darkness below.

"Feel now the dire might of the anger of Bra Naan!" he mouthed. "Die,
Dahnjen Saan, despoiler of the Temple!" He turned to an accolyte.
"Control the Beast, when he comes. Let him kill, but save the
Priestess. Her punishment shall be mine alone." He licked his lips.

"Yes, Oh High One. The Beast shall move only as the Hypno-ray
dictates." The accolyte hurried off into the Temple and in a moment,
lancing down from above, came the beam of the ray, searching into the
depths of the valley.
