
When the ship passed the moon, Seligman still sat, his body held in
place by the now-constricted webbing, facing the gaping squares and
sundered metal that had been the cabin wall.

Abruptly, the engines cut off. As though it were a signal, Seligman's
eyes fluttered and opened wide.

He stared at the wall, his reviving brain grasping the final truth. The
last vestige of humanity had been clawed from him. He no longer needed
air to live.

His throat constricted, his belly knotted, and the blood that should
theoretically be boiling pounded thickly in his throat. His last
kinship with those he was searching was gone. If he had been a freak
before, what was he _now_?

The turmoil fought itself out in him as the ship sped onward and he
faced what he had become, what he must do.

He was more than a messenger, now. He was a shining symbol of the end
of all humanity on Earth, a symbol of the evil their kind had done. The
men out there would never treasure him, welcome him, or build proud
legends around him. But they could never deny him. He was a messenger
from the grave.

They would see him in the airless cabin, even before he landed. They
would never be able to live with him, but they would have to listen to
him, and to believe.

Seligman sat in the crash-chair in the cabin that was dark except for
the eerie glow that was part of him. He sat there, lonely and eternally
alone. And slowly, a grim smile grew on his lips.

The bitter purpose that had been forced on him was finally clear.
For two years, he had fought to find an escape from the death and
loneliness of ruined Earth. Now that was impossible. One Seligman was
enough.

Alone? He hadn't known the meaning of the word before! It would be his
job to make _sure_ that he was alone--alone among his people, until the
end of time.