
The men and women in the field shuffled about in indecision. They
stared at each other in fear. Who among them was not sick? There was
doubt on every face and in everyone the thought that it would be better
not to know. Then the self-searching ended as though by common consent,
with every eye swinging to a man who stood apart from the group.

Clyde Ellery was a scientist, one of the few to escape the death of
their own making. On vacation, high in a mountain retreat, he had
seen the sky turn angrily red, had watched the pall of smoke. He had
hurried back, but there was nothing to do. There was no place that the
Geiger counter did not purr its message, and all he could do was mark
the dividing line between quick death and slow death. He had watched
the faces turned toward him, burning anger checked by the knowledge
that there was no punishment to fit the crime. Under the weight of
those glances, the burden of being alone, Clyde Ellery's shoulders had
stooped and rounded. He walked alone, and recognized its justice.

There was a difference in the looks now turned in his direction. He
sensed it, even before he lifted his head. His gaze went swiftly from
face to face and in those few silent seconds the appointment was made
and accepted. Clyde Ellery's thin shoulders straightened and he stepped
forward, walking through the small crowd to the ship. At the doorway,
he stopped. There was a queer rigidity to his body, as if he were
leaning against an invisible barrier. For a full minute he stood there,
unmoving, being tested by others than his neighbors.

"This man has no sickness," the voice from the ship announced suddenly.
"He may enter."

Clyde Ellery stepped through the door and was gone into the darkness
beyond.
