
"The blast was deafening! The sudden crash of it made a muffled booming
in the thin air, and smashed against my eardrums like a trump of doom.
The flare was blinding. The awful brightness of it lit up the cave like
a hundred suns, and burned through my eyeballs into my brain.

"When the smoke cleared all I could see at first was a shattered
something lying on the floor of the cave, all twisted and bent back on
itself like a smoking heap of shattered glass.

"As I shook my big, dull head to clear it my boy-self lifted off his
helmet and returned his blaster to the holster on his hip. His face was
shining with triumph. The sweat was running off it and he was breathing
heavily.

"But he spoke to me and his words were good to hear.

"'We got him, pal!'

"He didn't say 'it'--didn't refer to the monstrous creature as
something unspeakably alien.

"No--why should he? To him it wasn't a horror in the valley of the
moon. It was something out of a nightmare and he knew he'd wake up safe
in his own little bed at home.

"He was still thinking of me as his father--in a nightmare. We'd been
hunting jabberwocks together!

"And that lad was still in me--a part of me! I tell you, it sobered me
and made me feel ashamed.

"I was still feeling ashamed when both the boy and the old one
vanished. Perhaps melted back would be a better way of putting it. For
they did seem to dissolve and flow back, rush back, into me an instant
before I found myself standing alone again--in that valley that would
never grow old!"

Charley had arisen and was standing by the fire. Suddenly he stooped
and threw another log into the flames.

Far to the west the lights of the biggest spaceport on Earth blinked
through the purple haze, and every time a ship took off, bound for the
great outer planets, the desert would light up for miles.

But that light couldn't hold a candle to the one that blazed in
Charley's eyes.