
Daphne led Lee to a table and asked, "What would you like to drink?"

"Nothing. Do you have a little time?"

"Of course." She sat down opposite him.

"I had a--well, a dream last night."

"A dream?"

His eyes narrowed slightly. "You ask that as a question. Don't you
think it was a dream?"

"I would have no way of knowing."

"I don't think that's quite true."

"You feel I would deceive you then?"

"No, just that we're talking on different planes perhaps. I think you
know far more than you reveal. You knew Mr. Clifford told me I was
ready to see the man with the golden eyes."

"Yes."

"I saw him."

She was regarding him with the abstract warmth he had seen in her eyes
before. "What do you wish of me?"

"I--I don't know. I came here to--"

Daphne reached out suddenly and laid her hand on his. "All I can tell
you is this, Lee. Neither I nor Mr. Clifford nor anyone else can help
you anymore. All that can be done for you has been done. From here you
rise or fall by what's inside you."

"Then you're resigning your job?" Lee spoke lightly, but with a touch
of bitterness underneath.

"What job?"

"Mr. Clifford told you to serve me in any way you could."

"That still goes, Lee. What do you want?"

"You're a very beautiful girl. What do you suppose I want? You."

"You mean you're in love with me?"

"Does it seem so incredible?"

She smiled at him. "You're just exploring--hunting--aren't you? Still
trying to get answers to questions. You know that as a man and woman we
have nothing for each other?"

He was trying to look behind her eyes. "Yes, I know it. Where is your
love, Daphne?"

"The same place yours is. We're looking for the same thing."

"But can't we hunt for it hand in hand?"

"No. Each must seek in his own way."

"But you have a clearer idea of what it is we seek than I?"

"Perhaps--perhaps not. Who can say?"

Lee got up and extended his hand. "Thanks. You've been very good to me."

"You're going now?"

"Yes."

"Where?"

"To find the man with the golden eyes."

"Where is he?"

"He's somewhere in the high Himalayas. That wasn't a dream I had. I was
there. I saw him."

"But this time it will be different. The way is uncharted. There are no
road maps."

"I can only do my best. I may fail. I may never find him."

There was tenderness in her eyes. "I think you will. I'm very sure you
will...."

"Goodbye, Daphne."

Lee walked the streets until dawn and as he reentered his room it was
to pack a bag and check his cash resources. And it was as if he had
become two men walking in one skin; two minds housed in one brain. One
mind was that of a fanatic; the other, reasonable and cautious.

The reasonable man said, _You're a fool. They lock up people like you.
Too much whiskey. Too much of a mental beating. You've gone off your
rocker._

The fanatic said, _He's in the Himalayas. I'm going to find him. So
that's where I'm going._

The reasonable man said, _You're nuts._

The fanatic said, _Granted, but this nut's heading for India._
