
He shook his head. The Albatross was streaking in at the Nieuport now.
Their altitudes were about the same; both had leveled off from zooms.
But now the German pilot zoomed again. And then, as Tex pulled back on
the stick of the Nieuport, he came out of the zoom and dove.

The American pilot shoved his stick forward, to dive the Nieuport. He
saw the nose of the tiny Albatross come up, knew that the enemy pilot
had tried again to get beneath his plane for a shot upward. Both planes
were streaking at each other now. Tex squeezed the stick-trigger. The
crackle of machine-gun fire sounded, then died abruptly. But his fingers
were still squeezing the trigger. The gun had jammed!

#
#
#
# The German brought his plane up despite the odds, and then Tex’s gun
# chattered.
#
#

Tex Langdon groaned, banked to the right. A strut leaped, out on the
left wing. Fabric ripped; the tracer stream of the other ship was
tearing through wing and wood. A shape flashed up past the
vertical-banked Nieuport. Tex Langdon twisted his neck, got a glimpse of
the German pilot’s head. The two ships rushed past each other.

Once again Tex felt the desire to wing for it. He had plenty of reason
now. His wing fabric was badly damaged--a strut had been splintered. And
yet, something within him refused the chance. He swore hoarsely, banked
around, leveled off.

His eyes widened. Slanting down toward earth, flames streaking up from
her, was the Albatross! She was an eighth of a mile distant, and for a
second he thought that his short burst, before the gun had jammed, had
done the trick. And then he saw the other plane.

She was banking around, and evidently had just come out of a dive. She
was a Nieuport--and bore the markings of the Sixteenth Squadron on her
camouflaged fuselage. Tex stiffened in the cockpit. He forgot about the
damaged wing fabric, the splintered strut. Lieutenant Adams--flying the
dawn patrol! Adams had shot down the enemy with whom he had been
combating!

His Nieuport was roaring toward the other ship. He cut down the throttle
speed. Lieutenant Adams was dropping down toward earth, toward the
ground fog. At intervals, as Tex followed him down in a mild glide, he
could see the other lieutenant’s ship spurt a trail of smoke from her
exhaust. The ship was all right; Adams was keeping the gas feed steady.

The German plane crashed between the lines, in a great burst of flame.
Black smoke rolled up from her. And Lieutenant Adams was leveling off
now; he was heading back toward the Squadron. He was ignoring Tex, just
as though he had never been in the air. Even as the pilot of the damaged
ship tried to level off and wing after the other Nieuport, fog swept
over Lieutenant Adams’ plane. She was lost from sight.
