
Then the plane was motionless, and Tex Langdon snapped the safety-belt
buckle loose, slid carefully out of the cockpit. The splintered prop was
in the soggy earth beneath the trees through which the ship had plunged,
but it had not battered in deeply. Off to the right, as Tex dropped to
earth and limped about, sounded the steady firing of a battery.

Tex Langdon smiled grimly. The ship was a wreck. Lieutenant Adams had
dropped down from the skies and had got himself the Boche with whom Tex
had been battling so desperately. Then he had winged on back, through
the fog. It had been as though Tex and his plane had not existed.

The tall westerner shook his head slowly. It would probably mean Blois
for him, though the bullet holes in the wing surfaces might help his
case. He’d get over to the battery, get directions back to his Squadron.
And there was one officer with whom he wished to talk, back at the
Sixteenth. He wouldn’t have much to say--but he’d _say_ it in his own,
particular way.

He took a last look at the Nieuport, limped toward the sound of the
firing. The battery would be fairly close to the front--and that meant a
long trip back to the outfit. He had been lucky, perhaps, to escape as
he had, in the landing. But there was no thanks to Lieutenant Adams; not
for that.

Tex Langdon limped slowly onward. The woods ended abruptly, he was on
soggy ground. In the distance there was the flash of red, spreading
strangely through the white-grey fog. It was cold. All about him guns
rumbled. But he didn’t feel the cold, and scarcely noticed the rumble of
the guns. He was thinking about Lieutenant Adams, and getting back to
the Squadron.
