
Tex leveled out of the bank, dove on her with engine half on. She dove
instantly and he saw that she was going down after the wingdrooping
plane below. That plane, he saw now, was a Nieuport! And a Sixteenth
Squadron Nieuport!

The Fokker gained rapidly on the crippled American plane. Tex dove with
engine power adding speed. The Fokker swept down behind and slightly
below the Nieuport then zoomed, leaving a tracer stream in the sky,
slanting back of the wing-drooping ship. Again her pilot had missed by a
narrow margin.

But this time the German pilot pulled his ship up and over, and at the
peak of the zoom, as she was on her back, he did a nice Immelman. In a
flash the Fokker had righted herself. Less than fifty yards of air
separated her from Tex’s Nieuport now, Both guns spat streams of lead at
the same second.

The German pilot’s lead was low. It passed beneath the under-gear of the
Nieuport. Tex zoomed as the enemy shape flashed close. Flames were
shooting up from the engine of the German ship. But she zoomed, too. The
Nieuport jerked sickeningly. The controls were loose in Tex’s grip! The
Fokker pilot, knowing he was finished, had rammed the Nieuport from
below, striking the tail assembly with a wing-tip!

Tex Langdon felt the Nieuport go into a side slip. He tried to get her
out of it, failed. She was slipping off on her right wing, toward the
brown-grey line of the earth, almost a thousand feet below!

He jerked his head. The second Fokker was going down in a straight nose
dive, flames shooting back from her. And toward the ground fog to the
westward winged the crippled Nieuport that he had saved from the two
enemy planes.
