
Side by side, with less than twenty feet of grey air between the
wing-tips, they flew now. And Tex recognized Lieutenant Adams. That
officer was pointing toward his left wing-tip, which was in tatters
toward the trailing edge, with one strut twisting back in the wind. The
officer got a hand out in the prop wash, tilted it downward in a mild
degree. Tex nodded. He pointed back toward his ship’s tail assembly, saw
Lieutenant Adams twist his head, stare back.

And then the veteran lieutenant nodded his head and banked slightly to
the southward. Tex banked, too, very gently. The other Nieuport was
nosing downward now and Tex moved the stick forward a bit. The movements
of his plane were very sluggish, uncertain.

Fog swept over both planes. Tex flew with his head half turned, watching
the wing-tips of the other ship. Several times they were lost from
sight, but each time he picked them up again. Both ships were flying
throttled down. Seconds passed and they seemed hours. The fog was
growing thicker.

And then, very suddenly, the fog cleared. A slope seemed to rise out of
it. Lieutenant Adams banked sharply away from Tex’s Nieuport. His
plane’s nose came down. Tex banked his plane, cut the throttle. Below
was a fairly level field with very little fog on it. Even as the
Nieuport glided downward, he saw the wheels and tail-skid of the other
officer’s ship strike.

And then he was stalling the tail-damaged ship. He was within ten feet
of the earth when something snapped under the strain. The nose whipped
downward. There was a grinding crash as the prop splintered into the
earth. Tex tried to protect his head but failed. Something battered him
backward. There was a flash of yellow light and then everything went
black.
