

A year passed, and that young wife received at her domestic hearth
almost divine honor; to her husband she was the sight of his eyes, love,
wisdom, light. But Cinna, comparing his happiness with the sea, forgot
that the sea has its ebbs.

After a year Antea fell into an illness cruel and unknown. Her dreams
changed into terrible visions, which exhausted her life. In her face the
rays of light were quenched; there remained only the paleness of
mother-of-pearl. Her hands began to be transparent; her eyes sank deeply
under her forehead; and the rosy lotus became more and more a white
lotus, white as the face of the dead. It was noticed that falcons began
to circle above Cinna's house, which in Egypt was a herald of death. The
visions grew more and more terrible.

When at midday the sun filled the world with bright light, and the city
was buried in silence, it seemed to Antea that she heard around her the
quick steps of invisible beings, and in the depth of the air she saw a
dry, yellow, corpse-like face gazing with black eyes at her. Those eyes
gazed persistently, as if summoning her to go somewhere into a darkness
full of mysteries and dread. Then Antea's body began to tremble, as in a
fever; her forehead was covered with pallor, with drops of cold sweat;
and that honored priestess of the domestic hearth was changed into a
helpless and terrified child, who, hiding on her husband's breast,
repeated with pale lips,--

"Save me, O Caius! defend me!"

And Caius would have hurled himself at every spectre which Persephone
might send from the nether world, but in vain did he strain his eyes
into space round about. As is usual in midday hours, it was lonely.
White light filled the city; the sea seemed to burn in the sun, and in
the silence was heard only the calling of falcons circling above the
house.

The visions grew more and more frequent, and at last they came daily.
They pursued Antea in the interior of the house, as well as in the
atrium and the chambers. Cinna, by advice of physicians, brought in
Egyptian sambuka players, and Bedouins, blowing clay whistles; the
noisy music of these was to drown the sound made by the invisible
beings. But all this proved futile. Antea heard the sound amid the
greatest uproar; and when the sun became so high that a man's shadow was
near his feet, like a garment hanging from the arm, in the air quivering
from heat appeared the face of the corpse, and looking at Antea with
glassy eyes it moved away gradually, as if to say, "Follow me!"

Sometimes it seemed to Antea that the lips of the corpse moved slowly;
sometimes that black disgusting beetles came out from between them and
flew through the air toward her. At the very thought of that vision her
eyes were filled with terror, and at last life became such a dreadful
torture that she begged Cinna to hold a sword for her, or to let her
drink poison.

But he knew that he had not strength for the deed. With that very sword
he would have opened his own veins to serve Antea, but he could not take
her life. When he imagined that dear face of hers dead, with closed
eyes, filled with icy composure, and that breast opened with his sword,
he felt that he must go mad before he could kill her.

A certain Greek physician told him that Hecate appeared to Antea, and
that those invisible beings whose noise frightened the sick woman were
the attendants of the ominous divinity. According to him, there was no
salvation for Antea, for whoso has seen Hecate must die.

Then Cinna, who not long before would have laughed at faith in Hecate,
sacrificed a hecatomb to her. But the sacrifice was useless, and next
day the gloomy eyes were gazing at Antea about midday.

Attendants covered her head; but she saw the face even through the
thickest covering. Then they confined her in a dark room; the face
looked at her from the walls, illuminating the darkness with its pale
gleam of a corpse.

Every evening the sick woman grew better, and fell into such a deep
sleep that to Cinna and Timon it seemed more than once as though she
would not wake again. Soon she grew so weak that she could not walk
without assistance. She was borne about in a litter.

Cinna's former disquiet returned with a hundredfold greater force and
took complete possession of him. He was terrified regarding the life of
Antea; but there was also a wonderful feeling that her sickness was in
some way mysteriously connected with that of which he had spoken in his
first conversation with Timon. Perhaps the old sage had the same
thought; but Cinna would not ask him, and feared to talk concerning this
matter.

Meanwhile the sick woman withered like a flower in whose cup a poisonous
spider has settled.

But the despairing Cinna strove against hope to save her. First he took
her to the desert near Memphis; but when a stay in the quiet of the
pyramids gave no respite from the dreadful visions, he returned to
Alexandria and surrounded her with soothsayers, who professed to enchant
away diseases. He brought in from every kind of shameless rabble people
who exploited the credulity of mankind by marvellous medicines. But he
had no choice left, and snatched at every method.

At this time there came from CÃ¦sarea a renowned physician, a Hebrew,
Joseph, son of Khuza. Cinna brought him at once to his wife, and for a
time hope returned to his heart. Joseph, who had no faith in Greek and
Roman gods, rejected contemptuously the opinion about Hecate. He
supposed it more likely that demons had entered the sick woman, and
advised Cinna to leave Egypt, where, in addition to demons, marshy
effluvia of the Delta might injure Antea. He advised also, perhaps
because he was a Hebrew, to go to Jerusalem,--a place where demons have
no entrance, and where the air is dry and wholesome.

Cinna followed this advice the more willingly,--first, because there was
no other, and second, because Jerusalem was governed by an acquaintance
of his, a procurator whose ancestors were formerly clients of the house
of Cinna.

In fact, when they came, the procurator, Pontius, received them with
open arms and gave them as dwelling his own summer residence, which
stood near the walls of the city. But Cinna's hope was swept away before
his arrival. The corpse-like face looked at Antea even on the deck of
the galley; on coming to the city the sick woman waited for midday with
the same deathly terror as on a time in Alexandria.

And so their days began to pass in oppression, despair, and fear of
death.



