
Walraven said, "It wasn't easy. The Feeling got worse as we went out
and out. Knowing what it was helped a little, but not enough. We held
onto each other, the four of us, to keep the group together. We _knew_
what would happen if we let go."

The head psych man looked to Costain and put his needle away when
Costain shook his head.

"The ship," Coordinator Erwin said sharply. "Walraven, you did put her
into orbit?"

"Yes," Walraven said. "We put her into orbit and turned on the
telemetering equipment--they'll be picking up her signals by now--and
then we turned our backs on each other and we let go. There wasn't any
feeling of motion or speed, but I felt a fresh breeze on my face and
when I opened my eyes I was standing beside a familiar stone fence on
a hill above the house where I was born. You haven't told me, but the
others came back, too, didn't they?"

"All but Ragan," Erwin said. His tone made Costain think wryly, _Even
the military can snatch at straws_. "Maxon and Vaughn called in. But we
haven't heard from Ragan."

"He wasn't left behind," Walraven said with certainty. "Ragan has no
family, but he has a home. We're standing on it."

An orderly came in with an envelope for Costain, who opened it and
handed the paper to Erwin. To Walraven, Costain said, "It's a cablegram
from North Ireland. Ragan is back."

Erwin was still gripping the paper in his hand when he walked with
Costain out of the hospital into the bright airiness of a spring day.
He glared at the warm, blue sky.

"We'll find a way," Erwin said. "We've proved that we can put men on
Mars. With the right conditioning, we can keep them there."

"You're a dedicated and resolute man, Coordinator," Costain said. "Do
you really suppose that any amount of conditioning could fit you to do
what those boys failed at?"

The long moment of considering that passed before Erwin answered left a
fine sheen of sweat on his face.

"No," Erwin said.



