
So that was that. But Horse-sense Hank didn't go back to his turnip
patch. Because Helen MacDowell followed us from the office, her eyes
glowing. She said, "He's marvelous, Jim. Marvelous! What are you going
to do now?"

"I was thinking," I told her gloomily, "of trying a perfect crime with
your old man as 'X-marks-the-spot.' Any objections?"

She said thoughtfully, "You might wait till I get next month's
allowance. Daddy's not bad when you get used to him, Jim. But I mean
about Mr. Cleaver. Is he planning to stay here in town?"

Hank shuffled his feet. "Seems if I oughta go on back to my turnips,"
he opined. "Durn things'll go to seed if I don't."

Helen turned it on, and what I mean, when she did it really went on.
Her smile wasn't even directed my way, but I caught the backwash and
made next year's New Year resolutions ten months in advance.

"But how disappointing, Mr. Cleaver! I was hoping we might have dinner
somewhere and talk a little while--"

"Great idea!" I said. "I'll call Tony's--"

"--just the two of us," she continued, "alone."

Hank swallowed with difficulty. And stayed. Who wouldn't?

So I put him up at my apartment. At first he demurred.

"I don't wanta be no expense to you, Jim," he protested.

But he wasn't. Because one night I took him to the College Clubbe, a
gambling joint on the outskirts of town. He looked awful in a rented
dinner jacket; the smartly garbed croupiers laughed when he walked
into the casino. But he who laughs last, laughs last. We moved to the
roulette table and watched for a few minutes.

Finally red came up three times running. So when the croupier called
for bets, I laid a couple chips on the black. Hank frowned. As the
white ball rattled around in its groove he reached out suddenly, moved
my chips to the other side of the board, to the red.

I said, "Hey, wait a minute, guy! Don't be a--"

Then the ball stopped rolling and the attendant purred, "Twenty-one
red, _pass√©!_" and raked to my little bet an equal number of chips.

I pointed at the neat, even rows of chips and bills stacked before the
croupier.

"You see that stuff, my friend? That's money, not hay. You may be a
genius at some things, but this is the old gambola. A risk any way you
look at it. Lay off my bets!"

And this time I moved my entire bet to the black column. Why not? It
was due.

But Hank said plaintively, "Shucks, Jim, it stands to reason--"

And once again he reached out and shifted my bet to the red. Someone in
the crowd snickered. I went to move it back but the croupier, faintly
haughty, said,

"No further play, sir, if you please!"

Then the ball stopped--on the red 36!
