
May 28--Looks like this letter will be delayed a bit. We are under
quarantine. The government plane came this morning. They sent along a
diver, two reporters and a navy officer. The diver went down right away,
but it's several hundred feet deep out there and slants off fast. This
island is the tip of a sunken mountain, and the diver gave up after less
than an hour. Personally I think a couple of sharks scared him off, but
he claims there's so much vegetable ruck down there he couldn't expect
to find anything smaller than the launch's motor.

Cleveland hasn't found anything unusual in his bug net, but everyone is
excited here, and you can guess why.

When the "saucer" reports stopped cold about a year ago, you'll
remember, it made almost as much news for a while as when they were
first spotted. Now the people out here are speculating that maybe this
disc thing came from the same source as the _saucers_, after they had a
chance to look us over, study our ecology and return to their base.
Cleveland is the one who started this trend of thought with his
obsession that the flies I reported seeing are an attack on our planet
from someone out in space.

Commander Clawson, the navy officer, doesn't know what to think. He
won't believe Cleveland until he produces a specimen of the
"fly-from-Mars", but then he turns around and contradicts himself by
declaring a temporary quarantine until he gets further orders from
Honolulu.

The reporters are damned nuisances. They're turning out reams of Sunday
supplement type stuff and pestering the devil out of Sparks to let them
wire it back, but our radio is now under navy control, too.

Sure is crowded in the bunk-house with the six additional people, but no
one will sleep outside the screen.
