
Once on the ground floor, Blake began exploring in a rapid fashion.
All the inner doors were unlocked, so that he freely passed from room
to room. The colossal nave was an almost eldritch place with its
drifts and mountains of dust over box pews, altar, hour-glass pulpit,
and sounding-board, and its titanic ropes of cobweb stretching among
the pointed arches of the gallery and entwining the clustered Gothic
columns. Over all this hushed desolation played a hideous leaden light
as the declining afternoon sun sent its rays through the strange,
half-blackened panes of the great apsidal windows.

The paintings on those windows were so obscured by soot that Blake
could scarcely decipher what they had represented, but from the little
he could make out he did not like them. The designs were largely
conventional, and his knowledge of obscure symbolism told him much
concerning some of the ancient patterns. The few saints depicted bore
expressions distinctly open to criticism, while one of the windows
seemed to show merely a dark space with spirals of curious luminosity
scattered about in it. Turning away from the windows, Blake noticed
that the cobwebbed cross above the altar was not of the ordinary kind,
but resembled the primordial ankh or crux ansata of shadowy Egypt.

In a rear vestry room beside the apse Blake found a rotting desk and
ceiling-high shelves of mildewed, disintegrating books. Here for the
first time he received a positive shock of objective horror, for the
titles of those books told him much. They were the black, forbidden
things which most sane people have never even heard of, or have
heard of only in furtive, timorous whispers; the banned and dreaded
repositories of equivocal secrets and immemorial formul√¶ which have
trickled down the stream of time from the days of man's youth, and the
dim, fabulous days before man was. He had himself read many of them--a
Latin version of the abhorred _Necronomicon_, the sinister _Liber
Ivonis_, the infamous _Cultes des Goules_ of Comte d'Erlette, the
_Unaussprechlichen Kulten_ of von Junzt, and old Ludvig Prinn's hellish
_De Vermis Mysteriis_. But there were others he had known merely by
reputation or not at all--the _Pnakotic Manuscripts_, the _Book of
Dzyan_, and a crumbling volume in wholly unidentifiable characters yet
with certain symbols and diagrams shudderingly recognizable to the
occult student. Clearly, the lingering local rumors had not lied. This
place had once been the seat of an evil older than mankind and wider
than the known universe.

In the ruined desk was a small leather-bound record-book filled with
entries in some odd cryptographic medium. The manuscript writing
consisted of the common traditional symbols used today in astronomy and
anciently in alchemy, astrology, and other dubious arts--the devices
of the sun, moon, planets, aspects, and zodiacal signs--here massed in
solid pages of text, with divisions and paragraphings suggesting that
each symbol answered to some alphabetical letter.

In the hope of later solving the cryptogram, Blake bore off this
volume in his coat pocket. Many of the great tomes on the shelves
fascinated him unutterably, and he felt tempted to borrow them at some
later time. He wondered how they could have remained undisturbed so
long. Was he the first to conquer the clutching, pervasive fear which
had for nearly sixty years protected this deserted place from visitors?

Having now thoroughly explored the ground floor, Blake plowed again
through the dust of the spectral nave to the front vestibule, where he
had seen a door and staircase presumably leading up to the blackened
tower and steeple--objects so long familiar to him at a distance. The
ascent was a choking experience, for dust lay thick, while the spiders
had done their worst in this constricted place. The staircase was a
spiral with high, narrow wooden treads, and now and then Blake passed a
clouded window looking dizzily out over the city. Though he had seen no
ropes below, he expected to find a bell or peal of bells in the tower
whose narrow, louver-boarded lancet windows his field-glass had studied
so often. Here he was doomed to disappointment, for when he attained
the top of the stairs he found the tower chamber vacant of chimes, and
clearly devoted to vastly different purposes.
