
Bill worked for the Monopoly as a kind of glorified errand boy.
Everyone worked for monopolies in this day and age, freebooter or not.
As he rode upward, he had an inkling that something important was
disturbing the smoothly regulated mechanism of the world. The entire
IWFM building buzzed with feverish activity.

"Another fuel crisis," Bill murmured thoughtfully. He stepped from
the elevator and hurried down a hall to a door marked--_Commissioner
Castlebottom_, Fuel. Bill rapped.

"Come in," said a voice. It was a smooth feminine voice, not
Castlebottom's.

Bill entered and was stared at from behind a desk. The eyes that were
fastened upon him were worried and balloon-like. They belonged to
Castlebottom, a youngish, rotund individual with a great deal of front.

"So it's you at last," Castlebottom puffed. "Such delays! The
crisis ... etheroel."

Bill sniffed, then jockeyed his eyes around, searching for the other
voice. It was then that he caught his breath....

Kitty Carlton was the woman of the moment, the toast of three
worlds--Mars, Venus and Earth. The Planetoids didn't count for they
were just colonies. Kitty was the very capable chief of the giant
Cosmetics Monopoly. But she wasn't toasted for that. It was her very
trim, blonde, dimpled loveliness that did the trick. Dressed in
leatherine white from head to foot, she resembled a snow queen.

"Petrie!" Castlebottom's strained voice jarred Bill back into
the present. "Pay attention, please! That's the trouble with you
freebooters. Minds always wander."

"Do you blame me?" Bill murmured.

"The matter in hand," Castlebottom said, frowning and paying no
attention to the girl. "You know there's an etheroel crisis? We've
tapped the last fuel sands on Venus. Our supply will be gone within a
month. You know what that means?"

"Where do I fit in?" Bill asked.

"This, precisely," said Castlebottom. "You leave for Planetoid Uva
immediately. We can't spare anyone else. Here are the _equals_ to be
filled in by the Uvans. We've outlined the problem. We need a synthetic
etheroel. The Uvans will give you the answer. Guard it with your life.
Now you'll need credentials ... wait...."

Castlebottom was up from his desk. He disappeared into a side office.

"Freebooter, eh?" It was Kitty Carlton. She had crossed the room and
now sat on the edge of Castlebottom's desk, looking at Bill with frank,
deep-blue eyes. "Very interesting. You're the first one I've ever seen
this close. You don't look very different."

"So you think," Bill grinned. "You ought to hear my side of the
difference. How about lunch any one of these years?"

The girl's penciled brows knitted. "With a freebooter? No!" Her lips
parted with a vague smile. "But if you were ... ah ... for example, a
monopoly commissioner like Tubby--"

"Tubby?" asked Bill.

"Yes, Castlebottom, my fianc√©."

"You'd give me a buzz?"

"Perhaps."

Castlebottom returned to the room, puffing with bureaucratic vigor.
"Here are your credentials, Petrie," he said, handing Bill a metallic
IWG diplomatic pass. "There's a Patrol cruiser waiting."

Bill took one look at Kitty Carlton and tossed the pass back upon the
desk. "I'm not going!" he said.

"Not going!" Castlebottom exploded. "But the fuel crisis, man!"

"Get someone else. I said I'm staying. I'm working my way up to head a
monopoly."

"You!" Castlebottom turned purple.

"Yeah, me. I'll think my way up. That's more than you ever did."

Castlebottom looked very threatening for a second. He clenched and
unclenched his hands spasmodically, finally stabbing a pudgy finger at
a pushbutton on his desk. He had the look of a conqueror as he stared
toward the door.

Bill pivoted in time to see the three Monopoly Building policemen
charge in. Each one was built on the order of an eight-gun
space-destroyer and the result was about as devastating. Bill got in
one sharp jab but a moment later the three destroyers carried him out.
Bill's sandy hair was a bit mussed. His good-natured mouth was clamped
tightly on a trickle of blood and the rest of his body felt like
strenuously whipped eggs.

"Freebooter!" That was the last thing he heard Castlebottom saying.
"Take him down to the cruiser."
