
Webster brightened and blinked his gentle eyes. "A most interesting
phenomena," he began. "You recall the story about that warrior in
ancient history--Napoleon. It is said that he had a mind like a file
cabinet. He could open any drawer in his mind and think about what was
in it to the exclusion of all else. Then, at will, he could shut off
a particular thought just as one closes a drawer. The Uvans are like
that. Their minds are segmented.

"Their faculty for thinking is as precise as a machine. All their
thought efforts can concentrate in any one of the grape-like thought
cells in their heads completely cutting out all other thoughts. That's
why they're so absent-minded about little things. They have absolutely
no administrative or practical ability. Administration required, not
concentration, but spread."

"But how'd they get so bright?"

"Ah, just listen," said Webster. "Nature just happened to provide in
this manner. However, the segmentation is a slow process. Uvans live to
be about a hundred and fifty years old. After that, their resin bodies
crystallize and flake away. They reach their _age of thought_ at the
age of one hundred and forty years which means they've only got about
ten years for good active thinking. It's quite a problem. That's why
the Interworld Government guards them so carefully.

"The young Uvans are nursed along through their first century and forty
years of childhood as though they were gems. Very few get born and
fewer attain their _age of thought_. The day of the final segmentation
and solidifying of their brains is one of great celebration. The
Uvans are a pleasant people. They love celebrations, particularly
revolutionary ones."

Bill gulped on his liquor. "Caviar?" he gasped.

"Ah, caviar," Webster beamed. "You've heard of the caviar wars?"

"Wouldn't say I had," replied Bill.

Webster hesitated a moment, ran over to the window and peeked out
through the crack between the window and shade. He returned to his
chair. "Where was I?"

"The caviar wars," Kitty prompted.

"Ah, yes. They figure a great deal in Uva's history. You remember
that period in history when the world was still dominated by
freebooters--not that I have anything against them--the Spaniards,
under Gonzales, discovered Planetoid Uva. They called the natives here
"_cabeza uvas_" or "grape-heads." Well, they tried exploiting the
planetoid for various natural resources and consequently, many native
Uvans died. It is also said that the Gonzales expedition, when it hit
Uva, was carrying a cargo of Venusian caviar to delivery to Earth. It
was used here as a trade medium.

"The Spaniards have always been unlucky as a colonial power, even in
the space world. Discovering America, they took away gold without
realizing the country was far more valuable than all its yellow metal.
With Uva it was the same. They exploited certain natural resources
without realizing that the Uvan natives, with their peculiar brain,
were far more valuable as _brain-registers_."

"So," Bill interrupted, "When the Interworld Government was formed, Uva
was restricted. We capitalized on nothing but their brains, eh?"

"Oh, it wasn't as easy as that," Webster shook his head. "We had to
grant them autonomy. They're very revolutionary. Intergovernment laws
don't apply on Uva. Even now there are difficulties. The only way we
maintain any control is by judicious doles of caviar. But sometimes,
when they all get the caviar bug at the same moment, a few lively
anti-world government wars break out. You're not here for that, are
you?"

"I'm here to get an _equals_ formula," replied Bill. "The Fuel Monopoly
is in a hole. The Venus etheroel supply is about run out."

"Etheroel!" Commissioner Webster jerked back suddenly, spilling his cup
of liquor.

"Yeah, how do I get an _equals_?"

Webster shook his head worriedly. "You'll have to go to the _Uvan
Thought Clinic_. Just present an _equals_ there and they'll give you a
completed answer." Webster hesitated a second, fished into his pocket
and brought out a personal calling card. He handed it to Bill. "There's
liable to be some trouble," he added. "If you get in trouble, here's my
card."

Webster jumped back again at the sound of footsteps shuffling near
the door. He hastily hid the brandy flask and three cups, and not a
moment too soon for Castlebottom and an Uvan guard who lugged a stubby
radium-plate gun around without the vaguest notion of why he carried
it, burst into the office.

"So! Stealing my fianc√©, you despicable freebooter," he cried, shaking
his fist at Bill.

"Tut, Tut," Bill grinned. "Watch out. You're under arrest. Whatever you
say'll be held against you."

Castlebottom smouldered pinkly. "Arrest! You'll be under arrest. I've
radioed the Patrol to rescue Kitty and me."

"They can't land," said Bill.

"They'll land. They're getting a special permit from the government. I
saw to that too."
