
Bill whirled around at the first sound of the voice coming from the
doorway. He saw Castlebottom standing there and behind him, three armed
Space Patrolmen. There was a very satisfied smirk on Castlebottom's
lips and a very efficient look about the Patrolmen.

"Excellent thought," Castlebottom said in his most administrative
manner, "The Fuel Monopoly appreciated what you've done to recover the
Uvan etheroel supply. We'll send you a medal--in jail! Very lucky I
overheard you." He signalled the patrolmen. "All right, men, arrest him
for smuggling caviar, kidnapping me and my fianc√©. You might tack on a
few other charges. Anything will do."

There was a little cry as Kitty threw her arms around Bill and glared
at Castlebottom. "You can't arrest him. Look what he's done."

"Hah!" grunted Castlebottom, rubbing his fingers over the ham-slice
folds of his neck where the pillory clamps had fitted too tightly. "He
hasn't got a foot to stand on. That is what comes of freebooting. He's
already given us the answer on how to save the etheroel. We'll do it
ourselves. We don't need him."

"Please," Kitty pleaded.

"Do you really mean that?" said Bill. He held Kitty's cheeks in his
hands, turning her face up toward his. "I guess you do," he murmured.

Suddenly he pushed Kitty aside and stepped toward Castlebottom. "Well,
maybe you win," he said slowly. "But if you're going to arrest me, do
me a favor. Hold your chin out like ... ah...."

Castlebottom thrust his chin forward. "Glad you're sensible about
this," he said. "You mean, hold it like this?"

"That's right--perfect," exclaimed Bill.

Castlebottom's chin was tilted just right. Bill's arm suddenly went
back, coiled, then shot forward with the speed and stroke of a
precisely ground piston. There was a flabby crack of soft flesh being
struck by harder flesh and knuckles. A kind of foolish look crossed
Castlebottom's face for an instant, then he folded up like a deflated
balloon. One of the Patrolmen caught him just as he hit the floor.

"That," said Bill as he licked his knuckles, "Is something I've always
wanted to do."

A look of horror flashed in Kitty Carlton's eyes and she lifted a small
hand to her lips. "Bill," she cried. "You shouldn't have. There's a
twenty year sentence for striking a commissioner."

Castlebottom shook his head and leaned against the Patrolman who had
picked him up. He tried desperately to reassemble his rage. "I'll have
his hide for that!" he croaked. "Arrest him!"

Bill suddenly waved a warning finger. "You'll have nothing for that,
Tubby boy. _I still hold the trump cards!_ First of all, Interworld
Laws don't apply on Uva. The government here, when it remembers it's a
government, is autonomous. So you can't arrest me unless the Uvans do
it. Furthermore you're going to drop all charges against Kitty, myself
and anyone else."

"Drop charges!" Castlebottom revived and exploded. "You practically
kidnapped Kitty!"

Bill shook his finger again. "Easy there," he smiled. "If you want any
etheroel, you'd better forget everything, including Kitty. You see, I
control the etheroel on Uva!"

Castlebottom fell back a step, white as a sheet. "What's this, a
trick?" he demanded.

"No--just freebooting," Bill grinned. "My Caviar Import Company became
a big holding company. For shares in the Caviar concern, the Uvans
had only two things worth trading--brains and etheroel rights. Being
a freebooter myself, why, should I want anyone else's brain. Since I
still hold fifty-one per cent of the Caviar Company stocks, naturally I
control the etheroel rights. Come to think of it, I'm the head of two
monopolies.... Maybe three.... I don't think Kitty will mind!"

"I don't think so either." It was Kitty, speaking.



