
He felt some mad conceit that this was death ... that the restless
fingers of the gray unalive plucked at his arm, bidding him rise and
stir forward toward he knew not what.

Then suddenly he was awake, alive, and conscious--and it was not death,
but life; fingers _did_ tug at him, but they were the figures of--

"_'Ranies!_" cried Chip. "Hands off, you! Or--"

The green complexioned native growled some guttural comment, moved
closer rather than away, and pinioned Chip's arms to his sides. Chip
saw, now, that the _Chickadee_, though battered and broken beyond hope
of repair, had miraculously grounded without destroying them all. For
Syd was stirring, and Salvation, too, but each of them was surrounded
by green natives, as was Chip. These creatures, the nearest approach to
Man's physiology that had ever been found in the System, were tall and
rugged, masterfully built. They were equipped with native lariats or
bolas; these they whipped cuttingly about their captives.

Chip strained lashed fingers toward the heat-pistol in his belt. But
Salvation, seeing his motion, stopped him.

"No, lad! Relax! Don't make a hostile move!"

Chip growled, "No damned greenie is going to make a trussed duck out of
me. If I can reach this gun--"

"If you value your life," said Salvation, "and your welfare, keep your
hands quiet and your wits active! These creatures aren't Uranians.
They're Titanians. An offspring of the parent race, but as savage and
untamed as beasts.

"I don't know what they plan to do with us. I have heard they are
a strange, mystical race; their tribal rites and taboos are many
and--dangerous! Our only chance is to be quiet, try to reason with
them, convince them we are not foes but friends--"

All three were securely tied, now, save for their legs. The tallest
Titanian, evidently the group chieftain, grunted a word of command.
Strong arms prodded Chip and his fellows forward, out of the broken
_Chickadee_, into the bleak landscape of Titania.

They had crashed in the dark spot Chip had viewed from above. They
discovered, now, that this spot was dark because--incredibly--here the
thick, icy blanket had been stripped away to discover the raw and
rocky core of the Uranian moon.

Black rocks thrust jagged spires skyward, mountains of stone girdled
this one clear space on the whole of Titania; greater wonder still,
gnarled and stunted trees, lichens of hardiest verdure, eked a
precarious existence from the grudging soil.

And here the natives had--a village. One coarser, cruder, than the
village of the meanest of Earth's savages, but a village nonetheless.
Slab dwellings dabbed with thick black clay, a central structure,
larger than the rest, something that looked like a market--or community
gathering-spot.

Chip's wonderment had made him impervious at first to such trivia
as personal comfort and discomfort. He found now, though, that he
was cold. By dint of much effort, he managed to squirm a hand to his
belt-studs, operate the tiny needle that increased the warmth of his
space-suit.

Almost immediately there came a howl from the green native maintaining
a vigilant grip on Chip's arm; the fellow leaped away, bellowing angry,
guttural speech at his leader.

And Salvation spun to Chip swiftly.

"Chip--turn down that heat, boy!"

"B--but--" stammered Chip.

"Quickly!"

Chip obeyed. It was well he did so, for the leader was moving toward
him menacingly. With a cautious finger he touched Chip's suit. Then,
apparently mollified to discover it satisfactorily cold, he snarled a
word or two and the little party moved on.

Chip stared at the old missionary.

"But, why?" he demanded. "What did I do wrong? I don't get it. I was
freezing, and--"

"Then you've got to freeze," said Salvation Smith, "and like it. Until
we can escape from these creatures. Do you have any idea how cold it is
here on Titania, my boy?"

Chip said, "Why, plenty cold, I suppose--"

"About minus 380Â° Fahrenheit!" said Smith. "That's all. Uranians and
Titanians may _look_ like Earthmen, lad, but they're built entirely
different. They are not children of the Sun, as we are. Their bodies
are so constituted as to be able to stand extremes of frigidity that
would quick-freeze us like salmon. Sluggish basal metabolism, dermal,
rather than pneumonic respiration--these enable them to endure what to
us appear the impossible living conditions of a world on which mercury
and gallium are adamant solids, liquid hydrogen forms seas, and the
snow is carbon dioxide.

"When you turned on the heating unit of your bulger you subjected that
native's hand to what was to him a burning, unendurable heat!"

Chip nodded.

"I see. That makes sense. But--but there must be some warmth around
here? A cleared patch--"

"I haven't yet decided whether this patch was cleared by heat or
labor," said Salvation. "If we can make them believe we are friends, I
may learn. I can sling their talk a little. It's not unlike the Uranian
language. But--"

He stopped, and his voice rose to a shout. "Behold! Thou hast delivered
mine enemy into mine hands, O Lord; Thou hast brought the wicked even
unto judgment!"

And Chip, following his gaze, saw a second party of Titanians
approaching the central gathering place from the opposite direction.
These natives held captive, even as he and Salvation and Syd were held,
an ill-assorted foursome in spacemen's bulgers. A giant Venusian, a
greenie, a dwarfed Jovian and an Earthman!

"Amborg!" yelled Chip. "Blaze Amborg and his crew! They got away on
that life-skiff, but they were caught when they landed! Padre--"

It had not occurred to him that the arms of Amborg and his men
would not be, like their own, lashed securely. Thus it came as a
heart-stopping shock to hear Amborg's cry ring in their ears, a sharp
cry of command--then suddenly there flamed from the sidearms of the
other captive group the withering blasts of heat-guns!


                                  III

Chip Warren had bitterly resented the close guard with which the
Titanians had surrounded him and his comrades; he had reason, now, to
be grateful for that very protection. Otherwise his dreams of space
adventure would have ended suddenly and terribly in that moment.

As it was, the foremost wall of Titanians took the brunt of Amborg's
vicious attack. They screamed as pencils of crimson scorched the life
from their unprotected bodies, screamed and died horribly, falling in
blackened piles that whimpered futilely for an instant and were still.

Chip had never known a moment of such dreadful impotence as this. Arms
lashed to his sides, his own weapon as securely removed from his grasp
as if it no longer existed, there was nothing he could do but attempt
to evade the flame of the lethal guns.

With a choking cry to his mates, he threw himself forward; his knees
struck rocky ground, grit slashed his unprotected headpane as he fell,
and for an instant he feared the impact might shatter the quartzite,
exposing him to the deadly, ammoniac atmosphere of Uranus' second moon.

Then he was entrenched behind the still-smouldering bodies of the slain
Titanians, watching the speed of their fellows' reprisal.

And it was speedy. Salvation had spoke truly when he said these
creatures were savage and untamed as beasts. Reckless of their own
lives, green-casted features snarling, they swooped down on the
treacherous quartet. In the split of a second they had seized them,
bound them, removed their weapons.

But Chip and his companions suffered the same fate as their
adversaries. The Titanians stripped them of their sidearms, as they had
taken those of Amborg's men. Ungentle hands herded them into one of the
nearby hovels, and there, as two guards held the single doorway, they
were deserted.

Salvation groaned his rage and discomfiture.

"A judgment on that beast in man's flesh!" he proclaimed. "He has
destroyed us all! Had I been given an opportunity to talk with their
chief, quietly, peaceably, this matter might have been settled with no
harm done to anyone. But as it is--" He shook his head.

Syd said, "What do you think they'll do next?"

"Whatever it is," said Chip tightly, "I've got an idea it isn't going
to be pleasant. They're gathering; hear their footsteps and voices? And
there's something like the beat of a tom-tom--" He stared at Salvation
speculatively. "Padre--torture?"

Salvation stroked his long, lean jaw. "I hope not, my son. But--I don't
know. They are savages, and I have heard they place much faith in rites
and ceremonies. But we will learn soon. Meanwhile, keep faith with Him
who watches us all."

They learned sooner than they dared expect. Whatever else might lay in
store for them, they were at least spared the agony of waiting. The
Titanian preparations took but little time. Within scant hours after
their incarceration, the three Earthmen were once again dragged from
their prison to meet their judgment and their fate.
