
As the equipment of the remote-control station began to take on a
blurred reality all around him, Max Alben felt a bit of fear at what
he was doing. The technicians, he remembered, the Secretary-General,
even the black market kings, had all warned him not to go ahead with
his instructions if anything unusual turned up. That was an awful lot
of power to disobey: he knew he should return with this new information
and let better minds work on it.

They with their easy lives, what did they know what existence had been
like for such as he? Hunger, always hunger, scrabbling, servility, and
more hunger. Every time things got really tight, you and your wife
looking sideways at your kids and wondering which of them would bring
the best price. Buying security for them, as he was now, at the risk of
his life.

But in this other world, this other 2089, there was a state that took
care of you and that treasured your children. A man like himself, with
_five_ children--why, he'd be a big man, maybe the biggest man on
Earth! And he'd have robots to work for him and lots of food. Above
all, lots and lots of food.

He'd even be a scientist--_everyone_ was a scientist there, weren't
they?--and he'd have a big laboratory all to himself. This other world
had its troubles, but it was a lot nicer place than where he'd come
from. He wouldn't return. He'd go through with it.

The fear left him and, for the first time in his life, Max Alben felt
the sensation of power.

He materialized the time machine around the green instrument panel,
sweating a bit at the sight of the roomful of military figures, despite
the technicians' reassurances that all this would be happening too fast
to be visible. He saw the single red switch pointing upward on the
instrument panel. The switch that controlled the course of the missile.
Now! Now to make a halfway decent world!

Max Alben pulled the little red switch toward him.

     _flick!_
