
Alpha tried to communicate, so that Finn might pause while Alpha ate.
But Finn had no grasp for the many-valued overtones of Alpha's voice.
He seized a rock, hurled it at Alpha. The rock puffed into a cloud of
dust, blew back into the Relict's face.

Alpha moved closer, extended his long arms. The Relict kicked. His feet
went out from under him, and he slid out on the plain. Alpha ambled
complacently behind him. Finn began to crawl away. Alpha moved off to
the right--one direction was as good as another. He collided with Beta,
and began to eat Beta instead of the Relict. The Relict hesitated; then
approached and, joining Alpha, pushed chunks of pink flesh into his
mouth.

Alpha said to the Relict, "I was about to communicate an intuition to
him whom we dine upon. I will speak to you."

Finn could not understand Alpha's personal language. He ate as rapidly
as possible.

Alpha spoke on. "There will be lights in the sky. The great lights."

Finn rose to his feet and, warily watching Alpha, seized Beta's legs,
began to pull him toward the hill. Alpha watched with quizzical
unconcern.

It was hard work for the spindly Relict. Sometimes Beta floated;
sometimes he wafted off on the air; sometimes he adhered to the
terrain. At last he sank into a knob of granite which froze around him.
Finn tried to jerk Beta loose, and then to pry him up with a stick,
without success.

He ran back and forth in an agony of indecision. Beta began to
collapse, wither, like a jellyfish on hot sand. The Relict abandoned
the hulk. Too late, too late! Food going to waste! The world was a
hideous place of frustration!
