
It was a hot, bright day and Upper City was clean, fragrant and
beautiful, but John Stevens wasn't enjoying himself. He was filled
with nagging irritation, growing angrier by the second without
knowing exactly why. He began to search the eyes of people passing
by--well-dressed Outsiders in their one-piece coroplast suits, colors
ranging through all the hues of the rainbow. He felt shabby in his old
brown plasts. Those eyes seemed to be sneering at him. They seemed to
be looking at him with disgust and contempt.

He was about to turn around and go back to the snake stop, about to
obey the warning bell that had begun ringing in his brain, when it
happened. It wasn't much, and yet it was the last straw--the one that
broke the normal behavior patterns and left him at the mercy of his own
emotions.

A young woman, sleek and well-groomed, was passing with a little boy of
about five. The child stopped dead on seeing John. In spite of himself,
John stopped too. The child stared at John, eyes wide and filled with
wonder.

"Mommy!" he shrilled. "Mommy, _look_ at him!"

The woman tried to hush her son, to drag him away, but the child eluded
her grasp and danced back, still staring at John. "Look at him, Mommy!
What a funny color--"

John raised his hand as if to strike the child. He didn't mean it,
not really, but he wanted to stop that high-pitched voice, stop those
amazed eyes from examining him. The child screamed and ran to his
mother. The mother shrank back, enfolding the little boy in her arms,
and shouted, "Help! Help me, please!"

John turned and ran, almost into the arms of a tall Blast. He stopped,
whirled around, and headed back past the woman and child. He cut left
at the next corner, ran faster than ever before in his life, cut
right, and left, and kept going until the breath rasped through his
throat like liquified metal. But even as he ran, he was without fear.
He was too angry now to be frightened. And it was anger such as he'd
never before experienced. A sickening, confusing, red-hazed m√©lange of
emotion that had about it a nightmare quality.

He had to slow down, and saw that it was all right. He'd lost
that Blast, left the entire scene far behind. "Lousy foul-blooded
Outsiders!" he panted, and at the same time knew that it wasn't just
the Outsiders. It was his mother, and his father, and the slum, and the
gangs, and the poverty. It was his life he hated, his life he raged at.

This then was the irritation he'd felt in the past weeks, now
transformed by Upper City into a maniacal rage.

John Stevens was leader of the Adolphs. John Stevens wasn't even close
to being the biggest or strongest boy in his crowd. But he was the
smartest. And this raw, basic, but still superior intellect worked
against him as he stalked the wide avenues of Upper City.

A caper, he thought. He'd pull a big caper, return with loot, justify
this visit, take out his anger on these people--these scum who had made
his life so poor.

Or was it his mother and father who had made his life poor? Was it the
masters who had done that? Why had he come here when it brought such
confusion, such pain?

Another quick change of thought. He blocked everything from his mind
but the red haze of rage; fed it, allowed it to grow to the point where
it swallowed everything but his desire to strike back.

He didn't know where he was, where he was going, and he no longer saw
the Outsiders. He had regained his wind now, and began walking quickly,
almost running.

It was later, much later, when he finally found the right street, and
the right vendro, and the focal point for his hatred. Clothing. New,
bright, expensive coroplast suits. Eight hundred disks and up! More
than his father made in three months. More than John Stevens had ever
seen in a lump sum.

The street was quiet, empty of pedestrians. He walked past the vendro,
casing it with eyes that saw nothing but inner hate. Something
sane--something still resisting the never-before-experienced
rage--cried out that he wasn't being smart, that he wasn't checking for
Blasts, that he couldn't think straight enough for a caper, especially
one in Upper City. But he was back at the vendro now, and he was going
inside.

There was only the commersh, and an old man magnetting dust from the
floor. The commersh was an Outsider, naturally. But the old man was
one of York's folk, and this made John Stevens lose whatever grain of
caution he might have retained. His folk, slaving for these scum!

The commersh was moving toward him, face bland, only his dark eyes
showing something other than serenity at seeing a kid from York. "Are
you sure you have the right--" he began, and then gasped as John pulled
his knife and snapped the eight-inch blade free of the haft.

John pressed the blade against the Outsider's stomach and said, "Five
suits, the best, and I'm with you every foul-blood inch of the way!"

"Don't, son!" the old man said from the side. "Get out before--"

John half-turned his head, and then felt the numbness strike his body.
He stood there, completely rigid for a moment, and then found he could
breathe and move his lips and shift his eyes. The commersh stepped
back, pressed a red button on the counter.

"You Yorkers must be insane," he said mildly. "Do you think we haven't
got adequate protection against criminals of our own group, not to
say such pitiful amateurs as you? I can paralyze a whole vendro full
of people with this little ornament on my wrist." He showed John the
metallic strap and small case. "It's six months Re-education House for
you."

The old man shuffled closer, peered at John, said, "The Blasts will be
here soon. You can talk. Tell me your name and I'll get word to your
folks and your master. Maybe they can help."

The rage was so strong now that John barely heard the old man. He was
screaming inside, bellowing insane things that couldn't get through his
rigid throat. But the words, "You can talk," penetrated, and he calmed
himself.

He tried hard, and squeaking sounds came through his lips. He shaped
the words, and then had nothing to say. There wasn't anything bad
enough, anything that could hurt this Outsider, anything that could
penetrate his shield of superiority.

And then he remembered the ancient word, the forbidden word, the
cardinal sin that meant death if used. He'd heard it one night when his
father had gotten hold of enough medicinal prychol for a long drunk,
and had ranted and raved against the Outsiders.

"Nigger!" John screamed. "Niggers, all of you! Billions of foul-blood
Niggers! Planets full of lousy Niggers! All alike! All brown! Only we
are white! Only we are pure-bloods! Only we aren't Nig--"

The paralysis intensified, everything stopped, he couldn't breathe, he
wanted desperately to breathe. And, more than that, in a final instant
of clarity, he wanted to say that it was all a mistake--everything he'd
said, everything he'd thought, everything he'd lived by. He too would
be a golden brown, like the billions of others. It was his own folk
who were the outsiders, but it wasn't their fault either. It was the
fault of those few thousand who'd refused Integration when all the rest
of Earth's population had decided on mixed breeding as a solution to
human conflict. And that was six hundred years ago, and the cults had
formed in York, and no one knew how to break the pattern of hatred,
envy and fear.

But he was falling into a long tube that had no light and had no end.

That girl on the snake, that lovely girl with the sweet smell and soft
eyes and golden skin, that composite of all the white, black, brown,
yellow and red races of Earth would never be his. The space ships and
wonderful planets would never be his. _Never_, he thought, _because I
am dead._

He was wrong. He wasn't dead. He opened his eyes later and vomited and
was then hauled to his feet and stripped and given fresh clothing. He
was taken by two Outsiders--only he didn't think of them that way any
more, only used the term because he had no others--was taken by them to
a white room and pushed inside and left there alone as the port slid
shut.

A voice spoke from the smooth white walls. "CPCNC-Earth urges you to
accept psychiatric treatment."

"No," John said automatically. He didn't want his brain touched. There
were stories told by the masters--

The voice spoke again. "Very well. You have used the term of utmost
profanity to villify a citizen of Upper City. The Galactic Scroll calls
for a penalty of death. However, because of your youth, and probable
syndromic history, the sentence is reduced to ten years in Re-education
House. Have you anything to say?"

John fought not to cry out. Ten years! That was worse than death! Six
months was enough to break a man, and ten years would drive him mad.

He'd wanted to say he was ready for CYC. He'd wanted to say he was
anxious for the time when he'd be eligible for Integration, when
he'd be sent to another part of Earth and allowed to mingle with the
golden-skinned people and so lose his hatreds, fears and tensions. But
now he couldn't. Because it wasn't a matter of free choice any longer.
It was an escape from terror, from ten years in hell.

Later, he was told that this room would be his home for the next ten
years. He didn't answer the unseen voice, nor touch the food that was
given him through the minor-port. He decided he would use the only
means of escape men had ever found in Re-education House. He would
starve himself to death.

He meant it.
