
Sure enough, Berin was in his usual state of "first-run jitters."
Crayley had been a little afraid that Klythe's enthusiasm wouldn't be
up to par on this project, but it evidently was.

He was rubbing his hands together, a nervous smile playing around his
mouth, coming and going unpredictably.

"Well, we'll see today. Major Stratford will be here with the Space
Force Research Staff at fourteen hundred to watch the first one off. I
hope the bugs aren't too rough on us."

"Nothing will go wrong," Crayley assured him.

"That's easy to say," Klythe grumbled, "but you know how things can go
at the last minute. I'm worried about those tensile differences."

Crayley stroked his mustache and nodded. The material used in
the interior of the model was supposed to approximate the highly
radioactive material in the real thing as closely as possible, but
there might be just enough difference in critical spots to require some
small adjustments in the tape. If a man's hand applied just enough
pressure and torque to twist a piece of copper wire just so, it might
be too much or too little for a radioactive alloy wire that would be
used in the same place in the production piece.

After the suppressor field had been switched on in the hull of the
finished generator, the energy generated by the workings of the
intensely radioactive interior would be compressed to the sub-nucleonic
level, where it could be controlled. Unfortunately, the machine
couldn't be built inside a suppressor field; that would be like trying
to build a ship in a bottle when the bottle's neck was sealed shut.

Crayley said, "I've got a lot of stuff to do on Line Number Two this
morning, but I'd like to see the run-off."

"Sure," said Klythe abstractedly, "come ahead."

Crayley didn't go to Number Two. He headed directly for the recording
room. All he needed was ten minutes alone in there. Provided, of
course, that it was empty.
