
A commotion started at the door, and everybody's head turned to see the
guards bringing in Greg Hammond.

He shrugged off the guards and faced Hohmann defiantly.

"The United Nations have not stopped me," said Hohmann.

"The United Nations will never try to stop you," said Hammond quietly.
"We can only advise. Whatever is done, whatever may be started, we only
advise. You make your own future, Hohmann. Every man makes his own
future. And up until he starts that which is forbidden, he may stop
with no danger. Once your uranium pile is started, Dictator Hohmann,
you cannot retrack."

"I am about to start it now," smiled Hohmann.

"I warn you again to stop and think. You are not violating our laws
until you press that key, therefore we can initiate no punishment. Once
the key is pressed and the uranium pile starts, you are a violator and
subject to punishment."

Hohmann laughed uproariously. "This starting will be secret," he said.
"Just as any starting may be secret. I, give me credit for it, gave
warning; otherwise we might have completed our pile of bombs and been
ready to attack before your precious, toothless organization could
act."

"We may not be toothless," said Hammond. "I ask you to consider, and
once again warn you to desist. Building the pile is a misdemeanor.
Producing plutonium is outlawed. The final analysis, Hohmann, is
whether the plutonium is separated or not."

Hohmann laughed again. "You cavil," he told the United Nations
representative. "First it was mere contemplation that was evil. Then
the start was considered evil. Now we find that you think it dangerous
but not evil until we start the pile. Next you tell us that we can
start our pile providing we do not use the plutonium it produces.
Each time you back up--like the average democracy. Your final step of
course, is to protest vigorously while the bombs are exploding in your
cities. Fool!"

He reached for the key.

"Stop," said Hammond. "It is dangerous."

"So is crossing any street," said Fç«¯hrer Hohmann.

He pressed the key vigorously, and a simultaneous flash went off,
taking his picture for history. Somewhere in the country, well hidden
and removed from danger to the populace, the control rods moved, and
a flow of neutrons started to pass upward through the great pile of
uranium and moderator.

The nerves of the men present twitched. Strain. Those who held fear of
reprisals were half expecting something dire to happen simultaneously
with the start of the pile. Those who had no fear felt the surge of
exultation as they took their first real step towards world domination.

It grew warm in the room, but nothing happened. Then as the first
report came in that the uranium pile was working, Hohmann dismissed the
audience with a grand promise for the future.
