
The chimes sounded again. He opened the door.

She walked in with a demure, "Hello." He took her wrap. When he saw
what she was wearing he had to tilt his head back so that his eyes
wouldn't fall out of their sockets.

Skin, mostly, in the upper regions. White, glowing skin on which her
long hair lay like forest pools. As for her dress, it was as though
she had fallen forward into immaculate snow, half-burying her breasts
before catching herself on her elbows, then turning into a sitting
position, the snow clinging to her skin in a glistening veneer;
arising finally to her feet, resplendently attired.

He went over to the sideboard, picked up the bottle of bourbon. She
followed. He set the two snifter glasses side by side and tilted the
bottle. "Say when." "When!" "I admire your dress--never saw anything
quite like it." "Thank you. The material is something new. Feel it."
"It's--it's almost like foam rubber. Cigarette?" "Thanks.... Is
something wrong, Mr. Quidley?" "No, of course not. Why?" "Your hands
are trembling." "Oh. I'm--I'm afraid it's the present company, Miss
Smith." "Call me Kay."

They touched glasses: "Your liquor is as exquisite as your living room,
Herbert. I shall have to come here more often." "I hope you will, Kay."
"Though such conduct, I'm told, is morally reprehensible on the planet
Earth." "Not in this particular circle. Your hair is lovely." "Thank
you.... You haven't mentioned my perfume yet. Perhaps I'm standing too
far away.... There!" "It's--it's as lovely as your hair, Kay." "Um,
kiss me again." "I--I never figured--I mean, I engaged a caterer to
serve us dinner at 9:30." "Call him up. Make it 10:30."
