
MacVickers said, into the silence that followed, "I'm going to try. One
thing or the other, I'm going to try."

Pendleton's incredibly tired eyes looked at the livid burns on
MacVickers' face. "It's been tried. And it's no use."

Birek moved suddenly out of his queer, dazed stillness. He looked up
and made a hoarse sound in his throat. MacVickers caught a flicker
of motion overhead, but he didn't pay attention to it. He went on,
speaking quietly in a flat, level voice.

"There's a war on. We're all in it. Soldiers, civilians, and kings, the
big fellows and the little ones. When I got my master's ticket, they
told me a man's duty wasn't done until his ship was cradled or he was
dead.

"My ship's gone. But I haven't died, yet."

Pendleton's broad, gaunt shoulders drooped. He turned his head away.
Loris' face was a death-mask carved from grey bone. He said, almost
inaudibly:

"Shut up, damn you. Shut up."

The movement was closer overhead, ominously close. The men scattered
across the pit had stopped working, watching MacVickers with
glistening, burning eyes across hot oil-filmed metal.

MacVickers said harshly, "I know what's wrong with you. You were broken
before you came, thinking the smash was coming and it was no use."

Pendleton whispered, "You don't know, the things they do to you."

Stiff and dry out of the Earthman's aquamarine mask, came the words,
"You'll learn. There's no hope, MacVickers, and the men have all they
can bear without pain.

"If you bring them more suffering, MacVickers, they'll kill you."

Heat. Oil and reeking metal, and white stiff faces filmed with sweat.
Eyes shining, hot and glittering with fear. Rocking floor and sucking
pumps and a clutching nausea in his belly. Birek, standing straight and
still, watching him. Watching. Everybody, watching.

MacVickers put his hand flat on the engine-housing beside him. "There's
more to it than duty," he said softly, and smiled, without humor, the
vertical lines deep in his cheeks. His gaunt Celtic head had a grim
beauty.

His voice rang clear across the roar of the machines. "I'm Christopher
Rory MacVickers. I'm the most important thing in the universe. And if I
have to give my life, it'll not be without return on the value of it!"

Janu the Martian, away on the other side of the pit, made a shrill
wailing cry. Loris and Pendleton flinched away like dogs afraid of the
whip, looking upward.

MacVickers glimpsed a dark tentacled shape on the catwalk above, just
before the shattering electricity coursed through him. He screamed,
once. And then Birek moved.

He struck Loris and Pendleton and the blue-sheathed Earthman out of the
way like children. His left leg took MacVickers behind the knees in the
same instant that his right hand pushed MacVickers' face.

MacVickers fell heavily on his back, screaming at the contact of the
metal floor. Then Birek sprawled over him, shielding his body with the
bulk of his own.

The awful shocking pain was lessened. Lying there, looking up into
Birek's pale eyes, MacVickers made his twitching lips say, "Why?"

Birek smiled. "The current doesn't hurt much any more. And I want you
for myself--to break."

MacVickers drew a deep, shuddering breath and smiled back, the lines
deep in his lean cheeks.
