
Therewith I opened the folded painting and handed it reverently to him.
It showed a large globular ship with people living on the _outside_ of
it. The title of the painting was _Planet_.

Privately I had always thought the thing was wholly unnatural--a
curious off-beat of the master's imagination. I was quite willing,
despite its great beauty and its origin, to exchange it for something
which to me was far more attractive at the moment. Namely a woman.

Lisa lay curled up on the narrow, in-wall couch, with her head propped
up by a slim arm. She chewed her synthel-gum lazily and surveyed me
with mild interest. She was a tender-featured girl, with shimmering
black, shoulder-length hair. It was possible to forecast that she would
some day be a lovely and gentle-hearted woman.

Her father, notwithstanding his habitually rigid integrity, saw my
lively interest in her and tried to increase my generous bid for her by
an artifice of delay.

Holding the painting of the master at arm's length, he grumbled
critically, "A vision of _Hell_ would have been more to my liking.
Unhappily our Navigator did not paint one of his radiant visions of
that ship. Now, why would he prefer _Planet_ to _Hell_--particularly
when he described _Hell_ as warm and enclosed like our own ship?"

I did not answer his frivolous complaint, knowing full well it was only
bartering talk.

He handled the immortal painting with crudely feigned indifference. He
could not quite bring himself to let go of it. He was determined to own
it, I knew, and he sensed also my resolve to offer no more for Lisa.
Yet slyly he determined on an evil course.

For, incredibly, he turned to tranquil Lisa and asked: "What is your
value, lovely child? Does he offer enough?"

And slowly lifting her candid eyes to him she shook her head NO!
