
The Earthling proved to be much hardier. And more stubborn.

The sentinels, of course, gave him no further help. They would not have
stopped the fight, except that they had orders from Srtes to save our
visitor from any disabling injury, if at all possible.

The Earthling lay on the ground for only a short while before he pulled
himself to a sitting position. His face was bruised, blood ran from his
nose, and one eye was swollen and closed. With the other he followed
the progress of Ctvar and his party as they went on to the next
drinking place.

When he climbed to his feet his left leg buckled but he limped about
on it for a few minutes until he could walk. He strode purposefully
toward the drinking place Ctvar's party had entered, and pushed his way
inside.

Someone behind me muttered angrily. There was no pick-up in the
drinking place and we could only watch the exterior of the building.

We did not have long to wait. The sound of commotion inside reached us
soon after the alien entered. A short time later he tumbled out through
the doorway. His body was limp as it landed in the dirt street. He lay
motionless. A few minutes later we caught another view of Ctvar. He and
two of his friends were carried from the drinking place.

The alien did not recover so quickly this time. His first movement was
a slow rocking of his head. At each motion a low groan came from his
lips. He made several attempts to regain his feet, but his legs would
not hold him. At last he began crawling toward his room a few blocks
away. He left a small trail of blood behind him.

It took him almost an hour of crawling, between rests, to reach his
room.

I left Srtes' office with the council members. There would be little to
observe for some days, and that little I could watch on the screen in
my own cubicle.
