
I could build this up if I wanted to, and offer you a blow-by-blow
account of what happened in the next quartet of days. But why bother?
The truth is--nothing did. The V-I unit continued to chug along like
a dream; our old crate went flashing through space like a quantum
with a hot date; tempus squirmed; and me--I was in seventh heaven. I
don't mean fifth or sixth, either. This was the easiest shuttle I had
ever made. We were traveling so fast, and the V-I unit surrounded the
_Saturn_ with such a force-field, that my radio was utterly useless.

So I got a vacation with pay. I ate and slept with what you might call
'monotonous regularity', and I spent all of my waking hours curled up
with a good (i.e. torrid) book.

And at the end of four days, Mr. Biggs disconnected his V-I unit, as
called for on his plot-chart, and just like he said, there was Uranus
gleaming beneath us! So we landed and spent a night swapping yarns and
drinks with the S.S.P. officers garrisoned at New Oslo, then we took
on a hold-full of gallium, and tootle-oo to the refrigerated seventh
planet.

And (this gets tiresome, doesn't it?) we accelerated for a day and a
half, then Biggs plotted a course, pushed a button, and once again we
were free-wheeling through colorful and star-spangled space.

Life was swell, and life was wonderful, and if there was any fly in my
celestial ointment it was the fact that after the first week Lieutenant
Romeo "Lovesick" Biggs got tired of staring at his fianc√©e's image and
insisted on strolling up to my turret to tell me (1) what a wonderful
girl she was, (2) how much he missed her, and (3) how he was simply
going to _die_ if he didn't see her again soon.

Which boring details I had (1) known for years, once having had a
heart-throb for Diane myself, (2) figured from his conversation, and
(3) high hopes that he would. Quietly!

So somehow it was the afternoon, ship's time, of the fourth day of the
return shuttle and Biggs was in my turret, not to mention my hair,
and I was hearing for the thousandth time about he wasn't worthy of a
gal like Diane, when all of a sudden bells jangled all over the ship,
lights flashed the DANGER! signal, and my turret-audio broke into
frantic voice, and the voice was that of the pilot on duty, our Third
Mate, Bud Wilson.

"Sparks, is Biggs there! Yes? Get him here _quick_! And find the Old
Man! Hurry! For God's sake--"

We were out of there like a flash--make that _two_ flashes--and
pounding through the corridors, up the ramp to the bridge. We met Cap
Hanson on the way. The three of us burst into the control-room to find
Wilson tearing his hair, and Dick Todd, sweating, white-faced, poring
over diagrams on the chart-board.

Somebody yelled, "What's the matter?" and I can't tell you who, because
it was probably all of us. And Dick's eyes were haggard pockets in his
face.

"_Jupiter!_" he said.

"What about it?" yelled the skipper. "Talk, man!"

Todd shoved the chart at Biggs, pointed with a finger that wobbled.

"It's on our trajectory! Right before us _now_! We can see it--Look!"

And he threw back the shield, and my heart gave an awful lurch. For no
longer was the scene before us one of changing, iridescent beauty--the
entire pane was covered by a gigantic, menacing platter. A monstrous
missile of death. The planet Jupiter--dead on our course!

Lancelot Biggs' face, which had been keen and alert a moment before,
was suddenly a dull, blank mask of horror. Strangled words fought their
way from his throat.

"I--I didn't realize! I forgot all about Jupiter when I plotted the
return course! I--"

"Forgot!" roared the skipper. "Great comets--forgot!" Then his wrath
died in anxiety. "Do something. Turn off that blasted unit of yours so
we can loft over her--"

But Todd shook his head.

"That's no use, Skipper. I thought of that. We're too close. We're
caught in her gravitational attraction anyway. Even if we were to turn
off Biggs' device, there still wouldn't be time to get the rockets hot."

"Lanse--" began the skipper. Then, "Where did he go?"
