
After a while Ninon got up again from the sling and made her way to the
wall. She polished the dust away from a small area of it, trying to make
the spot gleam enough so that she could use it for a mirror. She
polished a long time, until at last she could see a ghostly reflection
of her face in the rubbed spot.

Yes, unquestionably she was younger, more beautiful. Unquestionably Time
was being kind to her, giving her back her youth. She was not sorry that
Robert was gone--there would be many young men, men her own age, when
she got back to Earth. And that would be soon. She must rest more, and
be ready.

The light drive cut off, and the great ship slowly decelerated as it
found its way back into the galaxy from which it had started. Found its
way back into the System which had borne it. Ninon watched through the
port as it slid in past the outer planets. Had they changed? No, she
could not see that they had--only she had changed--until Saturn loomed
up through the port, so close by, it looked, that she might touch it.
But Saturn had no rings. Here was change. She puzzled over it a moment,
frowning then forgot it when she recognized Jupiter again as Saturn fell
behind. Next would be Mars....

But what was this? Not Mars! Not any planet she knew, or had seen
before. Yet there, ahead, was Mars! A new planet, where the asteroids
had been when she left! Was this the same system? Had there been a
mistake in the calculations of the scientists and engineers who had
plotted the course of the ship? Was something wrong?

But no matter--she was still Ninon. She was young and beautiful. And
wherever she landed there would be excitement and rushing about as she
told her story. And men would flock to her. Young, handsome men!

She tottered back to the sling, sank gratefully into the comfort of it,
closed her eyes, and waited.
