
After what seemed long and intolerable hours to me, the pilots throttled
the engine down for an instant, and in the comparative quiet they must
have heard my shouts. I opened my eyes again to see the top of a leather
helmet leaning far out of the cockpit to peer under the wing.
Immediately the plane slanted back toward the ground, keeping as even a
keel as possible. One of the pilots leaned over once more to wave an
encouraging hand at me, and in a few moments we landed safely in the
middle of the field....

It was none too soon. My arms and legs were quivering from fright and
exhaustion, and before the plane could come to a stop, they abruptly
gave way and I rolled off on the ground. The tail skid handed me a
vicious bump in passing, and I lay there desperately sick, while
everything continued to whirl madly around and my ears rang like a set
of chimes.

The major in command of the field came driving up to me with his car,
and I will never forget the mixture of relief and anger on his face when
he picked me up. He took me home, where Father was trying to calm Mother
and Frank, both of whom were nearly hysterical. They were so glad to see
me alive and all in one piece that I escaped a scolding that day. But my
father and the major agreed that if we boys were ever caught on the
field again, we were to be marched home, there to receive a sound
walloping.

Needless to say, these orders were strictly obeyed for a time, although
the flyers patted me on the back and told me I was a “nervy little brat”
whenever they saw me around home. However, I had lost all desire to
steal any more airplane rides, or even to go aloft as an authorized
passenger. In fact, since that day the farthest I have been off the
ground was to take the elevator to the top of the Woolworth Tower in
order to please some friends of mine who were showing me the sights of
New York.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the June 1929 issue of
Blue Book Magazine.]

