
Standing on both sides were long rows of smiling men and women, two by
two, and in common with the girl who advanced down the aisle between
them, they were all completely naked.

"One thing seems certain," said Fendler. "Clothing is unknown on Mars.
I hadn't suspected, but I suppose it would be best to make nothing of
it."

"Exactly, Mr. Fendler," said Roy. "God created man and woman in the
Garden of Eden, unclothed, and it was only the warping effect of sin in
their minds that made them wear clothing. Obviously on Mars this either
never happened, or they have returned to godliness and purity."

"You're right, my boy," said Fendler, beginning to beam again. And this
time he beamed with distinct pleasure. "Beautiful, aren't they?"

"Terrific!" said Roy.

"The flowers are lovely," said Edith bravely. "She carries them so
gracefully."

"Flowers?" said Roy absently. "Oh, yes, flowers. Very nice. Geraniums,
aren't they? Look! She's giving them to the audience!"

"There's the groom," said Fendler. "My ... she's a lucky girl!"

Edith threw the executive a look that should have made him sink
through the roof, but he didn't see it. She returned her gaze quickly
to the heavens and tried to stare composedly. Once again she found it
difficult to find a comfortable position in her chair.

For long minutes the three along with every other person on Earth,
watched the ensuing ceremony, which was simple, direct, noble and
uplifting. Background music that began as a murmur, grew until it
became a virtual p√¶an of joy as the young Martian couple announced
their eternal vows in ringing tones. Then, before the assembled
audience, they removed their golden circlets from about their heads,
and exchanged them. Obviously this completed the wedding ceremony, for
now they clasped their arms around each other and kissed, long and
tenderly.

"It is ... lovely," said Edith wistfully.

Now the young couple, arm in arm, advanced slowly up a few steps toward
an ornate couch, around which burned candles with flames of a color
never seen on Earth.

"Eh?" said Fendler. He leaned forward anxiously.

"Oh!" said Edith, her hand flying to her mouth as though to stifle any
further outburst.

"Ah!" said Roy.

The couple advanced to the couch and sat down upon it. A moment
of incredulous silence was broken as Fendler leaped to his feet.
"Mallory!" he roared. "Get that show off the air! Cut the power! Smash
the cameras! Do anything! The FCC will murder us!"

"There's no power to cut," said Roy. "This isn't our show--remember.
Just the commercials."

"Then put on a commercial! Hurry, man!"

"Right in the middle of the show?" asked Roy. "Besides, _they_ control
the commercials too. Immediately after this scene, as I understand
it, they'll put on the breakfast cereal again. And it will be rather
well-timed, I'd say...."

Edith rose to her feet, her face flaming. "You've got to do
_something_...."

"I don't know what," said Roy, looking at the sky intently. "Besides,
isn't this what they got married for?" He settled himself more
comfortably.

Fendler turned and raced from the roof. "Somebody turn that thing off!"
he screamed. His voice floated back to Roy and Edith on the roof. It
died away in the recesses of the building.

"Nobody can turn it off," said Roy. "And it's going to go on for
months...."

"For months!" exclaimed Edith, horrified. She cast a glance upward,
then turned away, clenching her fists, and biting her lips.

"What's the matter?" asked Roy. "Can't you take it?"

She stamped her foot. "Roy Mallory, you say one more word, and I'll...."

Roy shrugged. "I'm surprised at you. Offhand, I'd say the Martians were
highly advanced, sensible, uninhibited, pretty wonderful human beings.
At least they know what they're living for. Maybe it would do you good
to watch."

Edith looked up momentarily at the sky, then lowered her gaze swiftly.
"I ... I can't!" she whispered. Then she too ran from the roof and
disappeared down the stairway.

Roy looked after her a moment, then shrugged and returned to his
contour chair and settled himself deeply into it.

As the Big Show went on, he had no idea of the turmoil that was
sweeping the world. It was only when the day's performance was over and
he went down to his office that he got his first inkling. It consisted
of the discovery that he had been fired--at the request of a certain
breakfast cereals company.
