
By noon the next day every sponsor who had signed up for the Big Show
had cancelled their contracts, and by midnight it became painfully
obvious that although the contracts could easily be cancelled, it was
not equally easy to cancel the show. That night the Big Show went on,
depicting more of the family life of the Martians, taking Earth viewers
through a typical day of a Martian couple on the day of the birth of
their first child. To many of those who watched the show, it offered
a tremendous fascination; but to others, more squeamish and unable to
face the naked realities, both of the flesh and of the business of
giving birth to a baby, neither of which spared any detail in their
presentation, it was an experience past their ability to endure.

However, as one prominent physician said: "_This_ is the way a baby
should be born! Every woman on Earth can take a lesson from what we
have just seen ... if they did we'd have little use for doctors,
psychiatrists or psychologists. This is the miracle of birth as it was
meant to be."

It was the unfortunate sponsor who made the loudest noise, though. His
screams were heard the world over. His brand of beer, spoken of in such
glowing terms before and after the broadcast, wasn't worth a nickel
after the Martians did a re-run of the show depicting how the birth
would have gone if the mother had been a drunkard. Now, indeed, were
there faintings and mental blowups among the populace. The scene _was_
rather ghastly. Some thought the Martians had overdone it, but as the
president of the W.C.T.U. remarked triumphantly: "Exactly what we've
been saying for decades!"

At midnight the FCC suspended the license of the NBC-CBS Big Show
Merger, and Herman Fendler himself lost his job. Along with him, of
course, Edith Miller became unemployed, although no woman in that
category could claim to be more beautifully unemployed.
