
The hour drowsed by. The day waned. The sun lowered in the peaceful
blue sky. Shadows lengthened on the green lawns. The laughter and
excitement continued. One little girl ran away, crying.

Mrs. Morris came out the front door.

"Mink, was that Peggy Ann crying?"

Mink was bent over in the yard, near the rose-bush. "Yeah. She's a
scarebaby. We won't let her play, now. She's getting too old to play. I
guess she grew up all of a sudden."

"Is that why she cried? Nonsense. Give me a civil answer, young lady,
or inside you come!"

Mink whirled in consternation, mixed with irritation. "I can't quit
now. It's almost time. I'll be good. I'm sorry."

"Did you hit Peggy Ann?"

"No, honest. You ask her. It was something--well, she's just a
scaredy-pants."

The ring of children drew in around Mink where she scowled at her work
with spoons and a kind of square shaped arrangement of hammers and
pipes. "There and there," murmured Mink.

"What's wrong?" said Mrs. Morris.

"Drill's stuck. Half way. If we could only get him all the way through,
it'll be easier. Then all the others could come through after him."

"Can I help?"

"No'm, thanks. I'll fix it."

"All right. I'll call you for your bath in half an hour. I'm tired of
watching you."

She went in and sat in the electric-relaxing chair, sipping a little
beer from a half-empty glass. The chair massaged her back. Children,
children. Children and love and hate, side by side. Sometimes children
loved you, hated you, all in half a second. Strange children, did they
ever forget or forgive the whippings and the harsh, strict words of
command? She wondered. How can you ever forget or forgive those over
and above you, those tall and silly dictators?

Time passed. A curious, waiting silence came upon the street, deepening.

Five o'clock. A clock sang softly somewhere in the house, in a quiet,
musical voice, "Five o'clock ... five o'clock. Time's a wasting. Five
o'clock," and purred away into silence.

Zero hour.

Mrs. Morris chuckled in her throat. Zero hour.

A beetle-car hummed into the driveway. Mr. Morris. Mrs. Morris smiled.
Mr. Morris got out of the beetle, locked it and called hello to Mink at
her work. Mink ignored him. He laughed and stood for a moment watching
the children in their business. Then he walked up the front steps.

"Hello, darling."

"Hello, Henry."

She strained forward on the edge of the chair, listening. The children
were silent. Too silent.

He emptied his pipe, refilled it. "Swell day. Makes you glad to be
alive."

Buzz.

"What's that?" asked Henry.

"I don't know." She got up, suddenly, her eyes widening. She was going
to say something. She stopped it. Ridiculous. Her nerves jumped. "Those
children haven't anything dangerous out there, have they?" she said.

"Nothing but pipes and hammers. Why?"

"Nothing electrical?"

"Heck, no," said Henry. "I looked."

She walked to the kitchen. The buzzing continued. "Just the same
you'd better go tell them to quit. It's after five. Tell them--" Her
eyes widened and narrowed. "Tell them to put off their Invasion until
tomorrow." She laughed, nervously.

The buzzing grew louder.

"What are they up to? I'd better go look, all right."

The explosion!
