
SEN. LARCH: All of which indicates, does it not, that we are dealing
with a race of people scientifically superior to our own.

LT. COL. GREAVES: It does.

SEN. LARCH: Then, assuming for the moment that your theory is valid,
doesn't it strike you as highly improbable that the sole survivors of
so scientifically advanced a race would, immediately after landing on
Earth, take up primitive husbandry?

LT. COL. GREAVES: No, it does not. I think that in undertaking the
voyage to Earth, the passengers and the crew of Spaceship X meant to
leave far more behind them than the natural catastrophe--probably a
tectonic revolution--that had occasioned their exodus. I think that
they meant to leave behind them a way of life which they had come to
loathe because it had supplied them with false gods, and I think that
once they landed on Earth and dispersed, they threw this way of life
over their shoulders and deliberately reverted to the thoughtworld and
the religious cosmogony of their remote ancestors. In other words, I
think that they used the natural disaster that forced them to migrate
to another planet as an excuse to begin all over again, and that they
burned their bridges behind them so that they would _have_ to begin all
over again. Probably they blew up the auxiliary craft, or lifeboat,
and every technological gadget it contained the very same day they
landed.... Earth, in those days, must have seemed like a promised land
indeed. Green, fertile, relatively unpeopled.... They had no way of
knowing, probably, that inter-marriage with the natives would soon
decimate their average life-expectancy.
