
SEN. NICHOLSON: I hereby resolve that this hearing be adjourned and
that a transcript of the proceedings be made public immediately.

SEN. KUELL: Gentlemen, I implore you not to act hastily in this matter.
Don't you see that if we accept Dr. Noyes' word as final, we will
be obligated to accept as fact that the concept of one God did not
originate on Earth, but somewhere out there in the wastes of space?
We will be obligated to admit that Earth was not the purpose of all
creation, but only a sort of afterthought?

SEN. HEWLETT: Gentlemen, I emphatically disagree. We are now obligated
to do what we should have done before: to really accept God as the
creator of the universe as we have come to know it. I hereby move that
we shed our geocentric cloaks once and for all and start looking upon
space not as a bÃªte noir which circumstance and the Soviet Union have
forced us to come to grips with but as a great star-flowered sea upon
which we should have ventured long ago. That God is far beyond the pale
of our picayune conception of Him is a fact that we have known all
along but which we have refused to live with because we would have had
Him be as small and as petty as we are. Let us resolve from this moment
on that when we say 'Almighty' we mean 'Almighty' beyond peradventure
of a doubt. Gentlemen, we have roots among the stars! Let us lift off
from this dust mote on the doorstep of reality and wing our way into
the majestic hall of universe and go asearching for the planet of our
birth!

SEN. LARCH: Amen.


                           END OF TRANSCRIPT

