
The following afternoon along Butte Street Cock Eye, who was off for the
day, saw the awkward fellow coming down the side of the square,
shambling. The bartender grinned reminiscently so that the stranger
angled over and addressed him.

“I don’t know’f I thanked ye for that bottle,” the man said. “I had to
have it for a baby a lady had down’t the camp. You see, you fill it full
of pretty middlin’ warm water an’ when the kid has the stomach ache you
put the bottle on the stomach, which warms it. Course you wrap it in
rags.”

“Quite an idea!” Cock Eye approved. “Tha’s all right! But why’d you want
it clean for that?”

“I didn’t know they was going to put warm water in it. I thought it was
for feedin’ or something.”

“’Tain’t your lady had the baby?”

“No, sir, ’taint. There’s a sickly feller there, the husband, I expect.
An old woman come over to my wagon about a bottle. So I come up an’ got
it. I’m just lookin’ around myself.”

Cock Eye went on his way. He rolled in his mind this new opportunity. By
the time night had come and he was in his white apron behind the bar, he
was ready for the boys to come in, which they did in due course.

“Say,” he said, “’member that feller come in last night to get a
bottle--empty? Well, I met’m up the street today. He did want it for a
baby. There’s a lady had a kid down’t the strollers’ camp and an old
woman sent him for it, so’s they could put warm water into it, to warm
the baby’s stomach when it ached.”

“Say, ain’t that funny? You did hit it, didn’t you, Cock Eye? You jes’
knowed it was for a baby-- Huh! Water, too. Say, tha’s funny, ain’t it?
Cock Eye spots a feller wants an empty bottle f’r a baby. What’d he want
a clean bottle f’r, anyhow?”

“He didn’t know’t was for a warmer. He thought it was to feed the kid
out of. Old woman sent him for it. He come here.”

“Tha’s funny--come here f’r an empty bottle!” one of the boys laughed.
“Le’s have a drink!”
