
Moments later a rude circle of flagpole trees loomed ahead. Across the
top of them was stretched a translucent web. Jimmy and Grannie got out
of the car and began making camp. Xartal remained in his seat. He was
drawing pictures on large pieces of pasteboard, and as I stood there in
the visiscreen room, I watched him.

There was no doubt about it, the Martian was clever. He would make
a few rapid lines on one of the pasteboards, rub it a little to get
the proper shading and then go on to the next. In swift rotation
likenesses of Ezra Karn, of myself, of Jimmy Baker, and of Antlers Park
took form.

Ezra spoke over my shoulder. "He's doing scenes for Grannie's new
book," he said. "The old lady figures on using the events here for a
plot. _Look at that damned nosy bird!_"

A silver cockatoo had alighted on the kite car and was surveying
curiously Xartal's work. As each drawing was completed, the bird
scanned it with rapt attention. Abruptly it flew to the top of the
eyrie, where it seemed to be having a consultation with its bird
companions.

And then abruptly it happened. The cockatoos took off in mass flight. A
group of Earth people suddenly materialized on the eyrie, talking and
moving about as if it were the most natural thing in the world.

With a shock I saw the likeness of myself; I saw Ezra Karn; and I saw
the image of Jimmy Baker.

The _real_ Jimmy Baker stood next to Grannie, staring up at this
incredible mirage. Grannie let out a whoop. "I've got it!" she said.
"Those things we see up there are nothing more than mental images.
They're Xartal's drawings!"
