
Meanwhile there was another conference going on at headquarters. Major
Krause, the commanding officer of the field, a red faced, apoplectic
man, whose military heroes were Frederick the Great and Baron von
Steuben, was roaring at the adjutant, his “yes man”.

“Here they are,” he bellowed, “sending us another squadron of mechanics,
when we haven’t got half enough room or work for the ones we have now. I
don’t know what we’ll do with them. We’ll have to try to pry another of
those folding barracks out of the French. And they have no officers, and
neither have we, though there’s a whole camp full of young fools with
commissions around here. But we’ll have to pick out one of them to
command the squadron, just to sign the reports that go in. Have you
anybody to suggest?”

“Well,” said the adjutant, “here’s a man got in today named Lang, whose
commission dates back to September, earlier than most of the others, but
I don’t know anything about him.”

“I know too much about most of the others,” said Major Krause. “Give him
a trial. Perhaps he may know something about his military duties. By the
way, did you tell the commanding officer of those officers in the
unfinished barrack that if they wanted it finished they could do it
themselves?”

“Yes, sir, and they said they hadn’t got cards to the Flying Carpenters’
Union, and they didn’t give a damn whether it was finished or not. They
kicked a lot about having to go out and pick up stones off the flying
field in full uniform, too, because the German prisoners stood around
and laughed at them.”

“They did, did they?” roared Major Krause. “What they need is
discipline, and I’m going to give it to them! Tell Captain Yuma to give
them an hour’s close order drill every morning after roll call.”

“Yes, sir,” said the adjutant with satisfaction.
