
We hated Marnick.

Because he was an Earthman and because he laughed, we hated him.
Awake and asleep, at our daily drudge of labor and in the throes of
sluggish nightmare, with a fierce tenacity from the very depths of our
souls--those of us who still had souls--we hated him. And there was
not a man among us who had not sworn to kill him if given the chance,
who did not dream of being _the one_. For we knew that some day it was
going to happen.

But when? It seemed impossible. Daily that is what I thought as I
trudged wearily to my place in B-Tunnel two miles below. We were
forty men against him, Martians and Earthmen alike. Once there had
been Venusians here, too, but they died too easily, and now Venusian
criminals were sent elsewhere. Forty against Marnick, but still he was
Law here on the tiny barren satellite of Jupiter--the seventh or eighth
in orbit, I have long since forgotten which. The Tri-Planet Federation
had appointed him overseer, then had immediately forgotten him and us.
Out of our way, you criminal scum! Out of the sight and memory of men!
Thus it was.

Yes, Marnick was law and lord and master of all he surveyed, and
believe me he surveyed us well. He used to come down the central
vertical shaft in his little case of special glassite, and hover there
above us, watching; sometimes unbeknownst by us; and heaven help any
worker who fell under his gaze, who he thought might be shirking.
Marnick reserved a very special fate for shirkers, a certain torture,
so I had heard.
