
_Vanderkamp stalked into the house and confronted his sister._

_"You see, Julie--a reporter. Can't you learn to hold your tongue?"_

_She threw him a scornful glance. "What difference does it make?" she
cried. "You're gone all the time."_

_"Maybe I'll take you along sometime. Just wait."_

_"Wait, wait! That's all I've been doing. Since I was ten years old I've
been waiting on you!"_

_"Oh, the hell with it!" He turned on his heel and left the house._

_She followed him to the door and shouted after him, "Where are you
going now?"_

_"To New Amsterdam for a little peace and quiet," he said testily._

_He threw open the thick-walled door of his time-machine and pulled it
shut behind him. He sat down before the controls and began to chart his
course for 1650. If his calculations were correct, he would shortly find
himself in the vicinity of that sturdy if autocratic first citizen of
the Dutch colony of New Amsterdam, Peter Stuyvesant, as well as Governor
Stuyvesant's friend and neighbor, Heinrich Vanderkamp. He gave not even
a figurative glance over his shoulder before he started out._

_When he emerged at last from his machine, he was in what appeared to be
the backyard of a modest residence on a street which, though he did not
know it, he suspected might be the Bouwerie. At the moment of his
emergence, a tall, angular woman stood viewing him, open-mouthed and
aghast, from the wooden stoop at the back door of her home. He looked at
her in astonishment himself. The resemblance to his sister Julie was
uncanny._

_With only the slightest hesitation, he addressed her in fluent Dutch.
"Pray do not be disturbed, young lady."_

_"A fine way for a gentleman to call!" she exclaimed in a voice
considerably more forceful than her appearance. "I suppose my father
sent you. And where did you get that outlandish costume?"_

_"I bought it," he answered, truthfully enough._

_"A likely tale," she said. "And if my father sent you, just go back and
tell him I'm satisfied the way I am. No woman needs a man to manage
her."_

_"I don't have the honor of your father's acquaintance," he answered._

_She gazed at him suspiciously from narrowed eyes. "Everyone in New
Amsterdam knows Henrik Van Tromp. He's as unloved as yonder bumblebee.
Stand where you are and say whence you came."_

_"I am a visitor in New Amsterdam," he said, standing obediently still.
"I confess I don't know my way about very well, and I chose to stop at
this attractive home."_

_"I know it's attractive," she said tartly. "And it's plain to see
you're a stranger here, or you'd never be wearing such clothes. Or is it
the fashion where you come from?" She gave him no opportunity to answer,
but added, after a moment of indecision, "Well, you look respectable
enough, though much like my rascally cousin Pieter Vanderkamp. Do you
know him?"_

_"No."_

_"Well, no matter. He's much older than you--near forty blessed years.
You're no more than twenty, I don't doubt."_

_Involuntarily Vanderkamp put his hand to his cheek, and smiled as he
felt its smooth roundness. "You may be right, at that," he said
cryptically._

_"You might as well come in," she said grudgingly. "What with the
traffic on the road outside, the Indians, and people who come in such
flighty vehicles as yours, I might as well live in the heart of the
colony."_

_He looked around. "And still," he said, "it is a pleasant
spot--peaceful, comfortable. I'm sure a man could live out his days here
in contentment."_

_"Oh, could he?" she said belligerently. "And where would I be while
this went on?"_

_He gazed at her beetling nose, her jutting chin. "A good question," he
muttered thoughtfully._

_He followed her into the house. It was a treasury of antiquities,
filling him with delight. Miss Anna Van Tromp offered him a cup of milk,
which he accepted, thanking her profusely. She talked volubly, eyeing
him all the while with the utmost curiosity, and he gathered presently
that her father had made several attempts to marry her off, disapproving
of her solitary residence so far from the center of the city; but she
had frowned upon one and all of the suitors he had encouraged to call on
her. She was undeniably impressive, almost formidable, he conceded
privately, with a touch of the shrew and harridan. Life with Miss Anna
Van Tromp would not be easy, he reflected. But then, life with his
sister Julie was not easy, either. Miss Anna, however, had not to face
atomic warfare; all she had to look forward to in fourteen years was
surrender to the besieging British, which she would have no trouble in
surviving._

_He settled down to his ingratiating best and succeeded in making a most
favorable impression on Miss Anna Van Tromp before at last he took his
leave, carrying with him a fine, hand-wrought bowl with which the lady
had presented him. He had a hunch he might come back. Of all the times
he had visited since finishing the machine, he knew that old New
Amsterdam in the 1650s was the one period most likely to keep him
contented--provided Miss Van Tromp didn't turn out to be a nuisance. So
he took careful note of the set of his controls, jotting them down so
that he would not be likely to forget them._

_It was late when he found himself back in his own time._

_His sister was waiting up for him. "Two o'clock in the morning!" she
screamed at him. "What are you doing to me? Oh, God, why didn't I marry
when I had the chance, instead of throwing away my life on a worthless
brother!"_

_"Why don't you? It's not too late," he sighed wearily._

_"How can you say that?" she snapped bitterly. "Here I am thirty nearly,
and worn out from working for you. Who would marry me now? Oh, if only I
could have another chance! If I could be young again, and do it all
over, I'd know how to have a better life!"_

_In spite of his boredom with her, Vanderkamp felt the effect of this
cry from a lonely heart. He looked at her pityingly; it was true, after
all, that she had worked faithfully for him, without pay, since their
parents died. "Take a look at this," he said gently, offering her the
bowl._

_"Hah! Can we eat bowls?"_

_He raised his eyes heavenward and went wearily to bed._
