
_Anna Van Tromp, considerably chastened, watched her strange suitor--she
looked upon all men as suitors, without exception; for so her father had
conditioned her to do--as he reached into his sack and brought out
another wonder._

_"Now this," said Vanderkamp, "is an alarm clock. You wind it up like
this, you see; set it, and off it goes. Listen to it ring! That will
wake you up in the morning."_

_"More magic," she cried doubtfully._

_"No, no," he explained patiently. "It is an everyday thing in my
country. Perhaps some day you would like to join me in a little visit
there, Anna?"_

_"Ja, maybe," she agreed, looking out the window to his weird and
frightening carriage, which had no animal to draw it and which vanished
so strangely, fading away into the air, whenever Vanderkamp went into
it. "This clothes-washing machine you talk about," she admitted. "This I
would like to see."_

_"I must go now," said Vanderkamp, gazing at her with well-simulated
coyness. "I'll leave these things here with you, and I'll just take
along that bench over there."_

_"Ja, ja," said Anna, blushing._

_"Six of one and half a dozen of the other," muttered Vanderkamp,
comparing Anna with his sister._

_He got into his time-machine and set out for home in the twentieth
century. There was some reluctance in his going. Here all was somnolent
peace and quiet, despite the rigors of living; in his own time there
were wars and turmoil and the ultimate threat of the greatest war of
all. New Amsterdam had one drawback, however--the presence of Anna Von
Tromp. She had grown fond of him, undeniably, perhaps because he was so
much more interested in her circumstances than in herself. What was a
man to do? Julie at one end, Anna at the other. But even getting rid of
Julie would not allow him to escape the warfare to come._

_He thought deeply of his problem all the way home._

_When he got back, he found his sister waiting up, as usual, ready to
deliver the customary diatribe._

_He forestalled her. "I've been thinking things over, Julie. I believe
you'd be much happier if you were living with brother Carl. I'll give
you as much money as you need, and you can pack your things and I'll
take you down to Louisiana."_

_"Take me!" she exclaimed. "How? In that crazy contraption of yours?"_

_"Precisely."_

_"Oh no!" she said. "You don't get me into that machine! How do I know
what it will do to me? It's a time machine, isn't it? It might make an
old hag of me--or a baby!"_

_"You said that you wanted to be young again, didn't you?" he said
softly. "You said you'd like another chance...."_

_A faraway look came into her eyes. "Oh, if I only could! If I only
could be a girl again, with a chance to get married...."_

_"Pack your things," Vanderkamp said quietly._
