
Something hard like the barrel of a gun rapped down on the top of his
head. "I ought to blow your dirty brains out. Killing my little
sister's dog, damn you. Damn you, I think I will kill you. Damn you,
damn you!" the voice crested.

"Wait a minute Jerry," the other voice cut in. "I got a better idea.
Here. Look at this."

Short silence. "Yeah! Yeah, that's just dandy. Look how thin he is.
That's just what the doctor ordered. Okay, the top's loose. Stand by
the door and don't let him get by you. Wait. Got your flash? Good! In
the dark. That's real good. Which switch is it?"

"Throw them both."

"Okay. Flash it over here. Look out, here I come!"

"Hurry up! Look at that hungry, black-eyed little devil. That ought to
fix up the son-of-a--" ..._Thunk!_ The compression rammed heavily into
Neff's ears. The bolts shot solidly into place from the outside, and
the combination knob rang faintly as it was spun. Silence.

They'd go out the same way they came in and tack the board back in
place. How long before anybody would miss him? Twenty-four hours?
Hell, no. Nobody would bust a gut worrying that soon. Two days? Some
weeks he was gone several days making the rounds of his loan offices.

A week? Maybe. Girls at the Palace would get suspicious. Tell Collin
Burns.

But a week! They'd cut off the blower when they threw both switches.
No ventilation. No air.

Neff strained at the ropes. His legs were pulled under the seat so
tightly that his feet were turning numb. Hands were tingling, too.
Dirty little sadists. Turning John loose thinking--

He _had_ to get loose. Less than one day's air, then--

"John!" Thank God John wasn't an ordinary rat.

"John, come over to me. These ropes. Chew them, John. Come on, John.
Come on, boy."

No sound at first, then a faint motion in the old newspapers.

"John, say the alphabet!"

"Eh--bih----"

"That's right. Go on!"

"Fih----jih----" The squeaking stopped.

"Come over to me, John. Come to me, boy."

He held his breath. The beating of his heart was so loud he couldn't
be sure that John was moving. The silence was long. Even the rat was
blind in this blackness. He must be patient.

Sweat began oozing and trickling down his face, his armpits, his
back--even his left leg. No, wait! That wasn't sweat!
