
The thing that really bothered Haynes was the fact that Jimmy had
told him who'd almost crashed into him on the Saw Mill Road, and it
was true. That was, to understate, hard to take. And there was the
double-exposure picture of Jimmy's front door, which was much more
convincing than any other trick picture Haynes had ever seen. But on
the other hand, if it did happen, why did it happen only to Jimmy and
Jane? What set it off? What started it? Why, in effect, did those
oddities start at that particular time, to those particular people, in
that particular fashion? In fact, did anything happen at all?

Now, after Jimmy's disappearance, Haynes wished he could talk with him
once more--talk sensibly, quietly, without fear and hysteria and this
naggingly demanding wonderment.

For he had sketched to Jimmy, and Jimmy had accepted (hadn't he?) the
possibility of the _other now_--but with that acceptance came still
others. In one, Jane was dead. In one, Jimmy was dead. It was between
these two that the barrier had grown so thin....

If he could talk to Jimmy about it!

There was also a now in which _both_ had died, and another in which
_neither_ had died! And if it was togetherness that each wanted so
desperately ... _which was it_?

These were things that Haynes would have liked very much to know, but
he kept his mouth shut, or calm men in white coats would have come and
taken him away for treatment. As they would have taken Jimmy.

The only thing really sure was that it was all impossible. But to
someone who liked Jimmy and Jane--and doubtless to Jimmy and to Jane
themselves--no matter which barrier had been broken, it was a rather
satisfying impossibility.

Haynes' car had been repaired. He could easily have driven out to the
cemetery. For some reason, he never did.



