
To think, with this reborn Peter, was to act. In an instant he had
whipped the mask from its sack and snuggled it about his face. Sucking
filtered air through its _kobold_-like mouthpiece lent the final touch
of isolation from worldliness--a process begun with the donning of the
tinted spectacles. But protected, now, from fumes and glooms alike,
hand resting on the comforting grip of his automatic, Peter crept down
the staircase.

The door through which the stranger had vanished was labelled POWDER
ROOM: DANGER! in bold scarlet. As Peter drew nearer this door he was
astonished to hear a faint muttering. Peering cautiously around the
door-jamb he discovered this was the stranger murmuring petulantly to
himself as he scowled at his little book.

"It says," frowned the stocky man, "three more. But where in the
name of Hypnos _are_ they? There's no one else in here. Another
infernal mix-up in the O.D.D., that's what! I wish they'd get things
straightened out--"

Then Peter moved. Whipping his automatic out of its holster, he burst
into the ammunition-packed room, shouting a wild and--he hoped--stern
command.

"Hands up!" he cried. "Surrender in the name of the--I mean, stick 'em
up! I've got you!"

The little man whirled, startled. But surprisingly, his lips cracked in
a grin, and his voice was pleased.

"Oh, _there_ you are!" he said. "I was worrying about you. The others
coming along soon? Well--nighty-night!"

And with a movement so swift, so deft, that no human eye could
follow it, his hand dipped into the sack, grasped a handful of the
slumber-producing dust--and flung it squarely into Peter's face!
