
He turned to pick up his cards again, but stopped at the sight of
Avery. Avery was standing and crumpling a card spasmodically, his lips
were moving without sound, and he was breathing rapidly.

"Look here," said MacPherson. "You'd better change the subject. If
little Joe passes by the door and hears us talking about the Project,
he'll have our visiting privileges revoked before you can say nuclear
fission, and they'll stay revoked forever."

"How long is forever?" asked Rothman.

Avery threw down his cards and walked to the window. Through the bars,
there was nothing to be seen but the expanse of sand, glinting in the
morning sun, and a cactus plant casting a stubby shadow. He whirled to
face the others.

"Look, MacPherson," he burst out. "I'm fed up with this game. Snookums
Rothman mustn't think about the Project any more, so we mustn't say the
naughty word. But we were all in it together at the beginning and there
was a while when we were all every bit as scared as he was. Why not
tell him we came this morning in case--just in case--he'd heard about
the test and was worrying? What's the harm in telling him what the
whole university knows? That zero hour is today, this morning, now!"

"Shut up, you fool!" said MacPherson.

But Rothman glanced at his cards again, then looked up. "When does it
begin? What time is it now?"

"Don't answer!" shouted MacPherson. "Are you trying to knock him off
balance again?"

"I will answer!" said Avery. "I'm going to tell him. He scared us silly
with his calculations; now let us scare him with some cold facts. It'll
do him good. Maybe when the test is over, if he finds--I mean _when_ he
finds--he was wrong, he'll be cured."

"Yes, and maybe he'll really be crazy."

Grabbing Avery fiercely by the arm, MacPherson tried to drag him to the
door, but Avery broke away.

"Listen, Rothman!" Avery's breath was coming quick and shallow. "Today
is the day! Zero hour is eleven o'clock this morning!"
