
Orne bent to his dinner as it came out of the bubble slot beside his
plate: meat in an exotic sauce, _Sirik_ champagne, _paloika au semil_
... more luxury.

Presently, Polly returned, resumed her seat.

"Anything important?" asked Bullone.

"Only a cancellation for tomorrow night. Professor Wingard is ill."

"I'd just as soon it was cancelled down to the four of us," said
Bullone.

_Unless this is a pose, this doesn't sound like a man who wants to grab
more power_, thought Orne.

"Scottie, you should take more pride in your office!" snapped Polly.
"You're an important man."

"If it weren't for you, I'd be a nobody and prefer it," said Bullone. He
grinned at Orne. "I'm a political idiot compared to my wife. Never saw
anyone who could call the turn like she does. Runs in her family. Her
mother was the same way."

Orne stared at him, fork raised from plate and motionless. A sudden idea
had exploded in his mind.

"You must know something of this life, Lewis," said Bullone. "Your
father was member for Chargon once, wasn't he?"

"Yes," murmured Orne. "But that was before I was born. He died in
office." He shook his head, thought: _It couldn't be ... but--_

"Do you feel all right, Lew?" asked Diana. "You're suddenly so pale."

"Just tired," said Orne. "Guess I'm not used to so much activity."

"And I've been a beast keeping you so busy today," she said.

"Don't you stand on ceremony here, son," said Polly. She looked
concerned. "You've been very sick, and we understand. If you're tired,
you go right on into bed."

Orne glanced around the table, met anxious attention in each face. He
pushed his chair back, said: "Well, if you really don't mind--"

"Mind!" barked Polly. "You scoot along now!"

"See you in the morning. Lew," said Diana.

He nodded, turned away, thinking: _What a handsome woman!_ As he started
down the hall, he heard Bullone say to Diana: "Di, perhaps you'd better
not take that boy out tomorrow. After all, he _is_ supposed to be here
for a rest." Her answer was lost as Orne entered the hall, closed the
door.

In the privacy of his room, Orne pressed the transceiver stud at his
neck, said: _"Stet?"_

A voice hissed in his ears: _"This is Mr. Stetson's relief. Orne, isn't
it?"_

_"Yes. I want a check right away on those Nathian records the
archaeologists found. Find out if Heleb was one of the planets they
seeded."_

_"Right. Hang on."_ There was a long silence, then: _"Lew, this is Stet.
How come the question about Heleb?"_

_"Was it on that Nathian list?"_

_"Negative. Why'd you ask?"_

_"Are you sure, Stet? It'd explain a lot of things."_

_"It's not on the lists, but ... wait a minute."_ Silence. Then: _"Heleb
was on line of flight to Auriga, and Auriga was on the list. We've
reason to doubt they put anyone down on Auriga. If their ship ran into
trouble--"_

_"That's it!"_ snapped Orne.

_"Keep your voice down or talk subvocally."_ ordered Stetson. _"Now,
answer my question: What's up?"_

_"Something so fantastic it frightens me,"_ said Orne. _"Remember that
the women who ruled Heleb bred female or male children by controlling
the sex of their offspring at conception. The method was unique. In
fact, our medics thought it was impossible until--"_

_"You don't have to remind me of something we want buried and
forgotten,"_ interrupted Stetson. _"Too much chance for misuse of that
formula."_

_"Yes,"_ said Orne. _"But what if your Nathian underground is composed
entirely of women bred the same way? What if the Heleb women were just a
bunch who got out of hand because they'd lost contact with the main
element?"_

_"Holy Moley!"_ blurted Stetson. _"Do you have evidence--"_

_"Nothing but a hunch,"_ said Orne. _"Do you have a list of the guests
who'll be here for the election party tomorrow?"_

_"We can get it. Why?"_

_"Check for women who mastermind their husbands in politics. Let me know
how many and who."_

_"Lew, that's not enough to--"_

_"That's all I can give you for now, but I think I'll have more.
Remember that ..."_ he hesitated, spacing his words as a new thought
struck him _"... the ... Nathians ... were ... nomads."_
