
And so the night watchman and the janitor both said good night to the
machine. Later, in the very early morning, the janitor stole back into
the laboratory with a book and read some strange, strange things out
loud and then stole out of the room again and locked the door behind
him. Shortly after, Samuel, the night watchman, passed by.

He was surprised at an unearthly glow coming from within and a peculiar
grating noise as if someone were stepping on a radio. Then the
unearthly glow appeared on the fire escape and Samuel, rushing out to
observe, thought the glow seemed to fly up through a hole in the low
clouds where a thousand stars still blazed brightly. In its wake there
was a sound like laughing.

A few hours later Dr. Henderson unlocked the door of his laboratory and
pushed a cart full of mice in before him.

During the morning he dissected three hundred mice, popping out liver,
spleen and kidneys as if he were shelling peas. In the afternoon he
made sections of the organs, stained them with hematoxylin and eosin,
mounted them on slides and looked at them under his new stereoscopic
microscope. Five minutes before five, Dr. Henderson's friend, Colonel
Smith, came in and watched as Henderson somewhat dubiously fed the
three hundred mice, now in statistical form, into the machine. The
machine whirred efficiently and shot out the answer in seconds.

"Statistically significant," said the machine.

Henderson followed his friend Colonel Smith out the door, looking
neither right nor left, and locked it behind him. It had been a good
day.

Behind, in the laboratory which contained within its confines all that
could be known about the universe, about man, and about mice, the
machine squatted in silence, the approaching darkness already enfolding
it like a shroud.



