
She was standing beside his cot again, and he concentrated to make the
walls stop spinning.

"It had a blue line."

"Yes, I know. Where?"

She showed him with her fingers. "This much."

"Halfway up?" he prompted.

Dumbly, she nodded.

He looked at the plants. "Hertha, listen. I've got to talk before the
paralysis comes back. You'll have to listen very carefully and try to
understand. I'll be all right in about ten days. You know that?"

She nodded again.

He took a deep breath that seemed to catch in his throat. "But you'll
have to go outside before then."

Hertha whimpered and fluttered her hands nervously.

"I know you're afraid," he said. "I wouldn't ask you, but it has to be
done. I can't go. You can see that, can't you? It has to be done."

"Afraid!"

"Nonsense!" he said harshly. "There's nothing to be afraid of. Put on
the outside suit and nothing can hurt you."

Moaning in fear, she shook her head.

"Listen, Hertha! You've _got_ to do it. For _me_!" He did not like
to make the appeal personal. He would have preferred to convince her
that fear of the outside was groundless. It was not possible. He had
attempted, again and again, to explain that the tiny satellite with
its poison air was completely harmless as long as she wore a surface
suit. There was no alien life, no possible danger, outside this tiny
square of insulated hut and breathable air. But it was useless. And the
personal appeal was the only course remaining. It was as much for her
sake as his; she also needed oxygen, but she could never understand
that fact.

"For you?" she asked.

He nodded, feeling the fever rise. His face twisted in pain, and he
stared pleadingly into her cow-like eyes: dumb eyes, animal eyes, brown
and trusting and ... loyal. The paralysis struck. His voice would not
come up out of his chest and the dizziness swamped his mind, and, in
fever, he was once again in Pastiville, the nearest planet with an
oxygen atmosphere.
