
"... we are guilty as the angels of the bible were guilty. Pride! That's
it, folks, pride. False pride...."

Harrison fringed the intent crowd of people cursing when, frequently,
someone carelessly bumped into him in an effort to get nearer the
sidewalk preacher.

"We tried to live with the angels above. We wanted to fly like the
birds. And then we wanted to fly like the angels...."

Someone near Harrison muttered an "Amen". Harrison wove his way through
them wondering where the hundreds of such evangelists had come from so
suddenly.

"Ya know, folks, the angels themselves got uppity once. _They_ wanted to
be like Gawd himself, they did. Now, it's us."

There was a small flutter of laughter among the crowd. It was very
quickly suppressed--so quickly that Harrison gained a new appreciation
of the tenor of the crowd.

"That's right, laugh! Laugh at our folly!" continued the thin-faced,
bright-eyed man. "It was a sword that the angel used to kick Adam and
Eve out of the garden. The sword figures all through the bible, folks.
You ought to read the bible. You ought to get to know it. It's all
there. All there for you to read...."

_By Christ_, thought Harrison. Here was an aspect of the concept, sword,
he had not considered. Morphological thinking required that _all_
aspects of a concept be explored, all plotted against all others for
possible correlation....

No. That was silly. The bible was a beautiful piece of literature and
some people believed it inspired. But the great good men who wrote the
bible had little scientific knowledge of a sword. They would simply
describe the weapon as a modern fiction writer would describe a
blaster--without knowing any more about one than that it existed and was
a weapon.

Surely the ISC's weapons expert could be trusted to know his swords.
