
Thirty minutes later, the three men watched the sphere of water in the
Speaker's hands. A radiogram had been sent across 126,000,000 miles to
Mars. Mars' answer, if it was affirmative and entirely trusting, would
come not in the form of a radiogram but in the immediate return of
Earth to its natural fluid state.

They watched the rigid sphere in fascination. Even now, the radio
signal that would cause the mechanism to cease might be winging its way
across space between two planets.

When the sphere broke, if it did, three billion thirsty human beings
would drink with the maddening impatience of Tantalus himself, released
from his eternal doom.

... The sphere seemed to quiver. Suddenly it sagged, flattened out
without a sound, its sphericity gone. The Speaker uttered a cry, and
dashed his hands to his face, gulping in as much of the precious stuff
as he could before it dribbled away from his hands. The Japanese and
Spanish Governors turned rapidly to faucets, and the water, clear,
sparkling, normal, streamed out....

For a short time the three of them were like animals. Then, gradually,
they stopped drinking, and stood back, slightly ashamed.

The Spanish Governor said, suggestively, "We'd better get that ship
fished out before the Martians realize they are not going to get water
after all. Otherwise--"

The Speaker nodded. He turned away, to go into his study, when he
stumbled over the prone body of Olduk, the Martian. A twinge of guilt
assailed him. He stooped and turned Olduk over.

Olduk's double-lidded eyes were open. Olduk's skin was as dry as his
native sands. Olduk was either dead or dying.

The Speaker troubledly called a doctor. The doctor made a brief
examination, handling the body distastefully. Suddenly he stifled an
exclamation.

"I can't believe this!" he said hoarsely. He got to his feet, stared
first at the Speaker, then at Olduk again.

"Do you know what he died from?" he stammered. "Do you know, gentlemen!"

And the Speaker knew.
