
Three weeks later, Edgar Evans was the newest boarder at Mrs.
Peterson's, on Elm Avenue in Greencastle, Indiana. He had arrived on
April 3, 1893, the day after Easter, and already he was being referred
to as "that nice young man staying at Emma's."

Edgar snuggled into the life of the '90s like a showgirl into mink. He
went to work as a clerk in Cloud's Emporium and was soon regarded as
logical choice for the next manager. Anxious mamas filled his evenings
with dinner invitations and "at homes" and he had a dazzling choice of
partners for the numerous socials.

Edgar waltzed his partners with zest and propriety, contributed a
determined tenor at parlor sings, and sampled dozens of cakes and pies
baked by maidens bent on winning his heart via the traditional route.
And always he had a gracious compliment, an appropriate phrase for
every situation.

Within a month, the entire feminine population of Greencastle was his
for the asking, though he'd never have recognized nor admitted the
fact. The men sought his company, too, and even asked his advice on how
to win their girls back from him. Edgar, almost sick with happiness,
told them, of course.

On the eleventh of November, he was sick with something else. He went
to bed with a fever right after getting home from the Emporium, Mrs.
Peterson hovering helplessly with offers of hot broth or tea. But Edgar
felt hot and dry and his side hurt when he breathed.

"I don't want anything ... thank you," he gasped politely.

By the next noon, when the alarmed Emma Peterson had Dr. Ward in, Edgar
was barely conscious. Dr. Ward frowned, ordered hot water bottles and
gave Edgar a huge dose of hot whiskey with lemon.

"Penicillin, please," whispered Edgar painfully. "Or sulfa. It's
pneumonia, isn't it?"

"Poor fellow's delirious," said the doctor to Mrs. Peterson.

Edgar realized dimly that he had made a blunder, but that no one would
know. Then the fever took over and he blanked out.
