
A year later George sat wearily in the control room of his chateau on
Indian Rock overlooking the town. Snookers buzzed over rooftops like
flies. Clouds of dust rose prosperously everywhere. In the streets
construction gangs raced in speed trucks.

George had begun to wonder how it would all end.

After the novelty had worn off, Senseless Destruction became more
monotonous, more depressing than the Installment Way of Life before
it. People worked harder than ever now and had less to show for it. Of
course, it was unpatriotic to have anything to show for it. Nobody in
his right senses would argue against Round-the-Clock Employment for
All. And if you didn't go around grinning and saying how happy you were
with your seventh mortgage, people began to suspect you.

George had talked it all over with Rosy and she agreed. Sure, it was
all right for _them_--for the time being. But George had begun to
despise himself.

He had to keep sharp control over the snookers. Some of them showed a
tendency to sneak off course, looking for some nice fresh target--like
the chateau, maybe.

The butler came in and presented a calling card on a silver platter.

"Vernher! Show him in at once."

Vernher von Wissenschaft marched in, cracking his Rommel whip. He
looked worried.

"Bad news," Vernher said, shaking hands. "Chust come from the
President."

"How _is_ Charlie?"

"Goot. But too much work. And trouble. These snookers." Vernher strode
to the window and looked out over the town.

"They're doing a fine job," George assured him.

Vernher turned. A grim smile slashed his face. "Too goot. Russian
economy caught up with ours. They vant snookers too. Must have snookers
or they go kaput."

"What's so bad about that? Let them go kaput. Cold war will be over at
least."

Vernher shook his head. "They threaten atomic war if they don't get
snookers. This time for real."
