
He broke off, looking at Phineas T. Gryce, said with quiet assurance,
"Excuse me, sir, if I seem to be taking too much upon myself."

"Not at all, son; go straight ahead," the great manager said
approvingly. "You're"--he laughed in anticipation of getting off a
memorable remark--"rising to the challenging situation like a genuine
Puffyloaf."

Megera Winterly looked from the older man to the younger. Then in a
single leap she was upon Roger, her arms wrapped tightly around him.

"My sweet little ever-victorious, self-propelled monkey wrench!" she
crooned in his ear. Roger looked fatuously over her soft shoulder at Tin
Philosopher who, as if moved by some similar feeling, reached over and
touched claws with Rose Thinker.

This, however, was what he telegraphed silently to his fellow machine
across the circuit so completed:

"Good-o, Rosie! That makes another victory for robot-engineered world
unity, though you almost gave us away at the start with that 'bread
overhead' jingle. We've struck another blow against the next world war,
in which--as we know only too well!--we machines would suffer the most.
Now if we can only arrange, say, a fur-famine in Alaska and a migration
of long-haired Siberian lemmings across Behring Straits ... we'd have to
swing the Japanese Current up there so it'd be warm enough for the
little fellows.... Anyhow, Rosie, with a spot of help from the
Brotherhood, those humans will paint themselves into the peace corner
yet."

Meanwhile, he and Rose Thinker quietly watched the Blonde Icicle melt.


                                                  --FRITZ LEIBER




Transcriber's Note

This etext was produced from _Galaxy_ February 1958. Extensive research
did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication
was renewed. Minor spelling and typographical errors have been corrected
without note.



