
Why?

Such a simple question, but in those three letters lay the essence of
human nature. Why. The drive of curiosity. Stronger, in a way, than
the so-called "basic" drives: hunger, thirst, sex, shelter, warmth,
companionship, elimination. Certainly more decisive in the history of
the race. Man began to think, to differentiate himself from the other
animals, when he first asked the question: "Why?"

But thinking about "why" didn't answer the question itself, Charles
thought. He looked around him. He was sitting on a bench in Central
Park, alone except for a few stray corpses. But the park was fairly
free of bodies.

"You've got about ten minutes warning," he said to himself. "I guess
that most people wanted to die inside of something--inside of anything.
Not out in the unprotected open."

The silence was like a weight hanging around his neck. Not an insect
noise, not the chirp of a bird, not the sound of a car nor the scream
of a plane. Not even a breeze to whisper among the leaves, he thought.
Civilization equals life equals noise. Silence equals....

Why. His mind kept returning to the question. Of all the people on
earth, me. The last. Why me?

Average, that's what he was. Height: 5'11". Weight: 165. Age: 32.
Status: Married, once upon a time.

The Norm, with no significant departures, all down the line. Church
member, but not a good one. Could that be it? Could the most normal be
the most perfect? Had he led the best of all possible lives? Was that
it? Had God, in His infinite wisdom and mercy, spared his life, saved
him, singled him out because he was most nearly a saint, most nearly
Christ-like, most nearly....

Lies--His mind snapped back to reality. He half smiled. Saint? Christ?
The Second Coming?

He was no saint.

Charles sighed.

What about--?
