
"Ed!" Janet Loyce backed away nervously. "What is it? What--"

Ed Loyce slammed the door behind him and came into the living room.
"Pull down the shades. Quick."

Janet moved toward the window. "But--"

"Do as I say. Who else is here besides you?"

"Nobody. Just the twins. They're upstairs in their room. What's
happened? You look so strange. Why are you home?"

Ed locked the front door. He prowled around the house, into the kitchen.
From the drawer under the sink he slid out the big butcher knife and ran
his finger along it. Sharp. Plenty sharp. He returned to the living
room.

"Listen to me," he said. "I don't have much time. They know I escaped
and they'll be looking for me."

"Escaped?" Janet's face twisted with bewilderment and fear. "Who?"

"The town has been taken over. They're in control. I've got it pretty
well figured out. They started at the top, at the City Hall and police
department. What they did with the _real_ humans they--"

"What are you talking about?"

"We've been invaded. From some other universe, some other dimension.
They're insects. Mimicry. And more. Power to control minds. Your mind."

"My mind?"

"Their entrance is _here_, in Pikeville. They've taken over all of you.
The whole town--except me. We're up against an incredibly powerful
enemy, but they have their limitations. That's our hope. They're
limited! They can make mistakes!"

Janet shook her head. "I don't understand, Ed. You must be insane."

"Insane? No. Just lucky. If I hadn't been down in the basement I'd be
like all the rest of you." Loyce peered out the window. "But I can't
stand here talking. Get your coat."

"My coat?"

"We're getting out of here. Out of Pikeville. We've got to get help.
Fight this thing. They _can_ be beaten. They're not infallible. It's
going to be close--but we may make it if we hurry. Come on!" He grabbed
her arm roughly. "Get your coat and call the twins. We're all leaving.
Don't stop to pack. There's no time for that."

White-faced, his wife moved toward the closet and got down her coat.
"Where are we going?"

Ed pulled open the desk drawer and spilled the contents out onto the
floor. He grabbed up a road map and spread it open. "They'll have the
highway covered, of course. But there's a back road. To Oak Grove. I got
onto it once. It's practically abandoned. Maybe they'll forget about
it."

"The old Ranch Road? Good Lord--it's completely closed. Nobody's
supposed to drive over it."

"I know." Ed thrust the map grimly into his coat. "That's our best
chance. Now call down the twins and let's get going. Your car is full of
gas, isn't it?"

Janet was dazed.

"The Chevy? I had it filled up yesterday afternoon." Janet moved toward
the stairs. "Ed, I--"

"Call the twins!" Ed unlocked the front door and peered out. Nothing
stirred. No sign of life. All right so far.

"Come on downstairs," Janet called in a wavering voice. "We're--going
out for awhile."

"Now?" Tommy's voice came.

"Hurry up," Ed barked. "Get down here, both of you."

Tommy appeared at the top of the stairs. "I was doing my home work.
We're starting fractions. Miss Parker says if we don't get this done--"

"You can forget about fractions." Ed grabbed his son as he came down the
stairs and propelled him toward the door. "Where's Jim?"

"He's coming."

Jim started slowly down the stairs. "What's up, Dad?"

"We're going for a ride."

"A ride? Where?"

Ed turned to Janet. "We'll leave the lights on. And the TV set. Go turn
it on." He pushed her toward the set. "So they'll think we're still--"

He heard the buzz. And dropped instantly, the long butcher knife out.
Sickened, he saw it coming down the stairs at him, wings a blur of
motion as it aimed itself. It still bore a vague resemblance to Jimmy.
It was small, a baby one. A brief glimpse--the thing hurtling at him,
cold, multi-lensed inhuman eyes. Wings, body still clothed in yellow
T-shirt and jeans, the mimic outline still stamped on it. A strange
half-turn of its body as it reached him. What was it doing?

A stinger.

Loyce stabbed wildly at it. It retreated, buzzing frantically. Loyce
rolled and crawled toward the door. Tommy and Janet stood still as
statues, faces blank. Watching without expression. Loyce stabbed again.
This time the knife connected. The thing shrieked and faltered. It
bounced against the wall and fluttered down.

Something lapped through his mind. A wall of force, energy, an alien
mind probing into him. He was suddenly paralyzed. The mind entered his
own, touched against him briefly, shockingly. An utterly alien presence,
settling over him--and then it flickered out as the thing collapsed in a
broken heap on the rug.

It was dead. He turned it over with his foot. It was an insect, a fly of
some kind. Yellow T-shirt, jeans. His son Jimmy.... He closed his mind
tight. It was too late to think about that. Savagely he scooped up his
knife and headed toward the door. Janet and Tommy stood stone-still,
neither of them moving.

The car was out. He'd never get through. They'd be waiting for him. It
was ten miles on foot. Ten long miles over rough ground, gulleys and
open fields and hills of uncut forest. He'd have to go alone.

Loyce opened the door. For a brief second he looked back at his wife and
son. Then he slammed the door behind him and raced down the porch steps.

A moment later he was on his way, hurrying swiftly through the darkness
toward the edge of town.
