
The early morning sunlight was blinding. Loyce halted, gasping for
breath, swaying back and forth. Sweat ran down in his eyes. His clothing
was torn, shredded by the brush and thorns through which he had crawled.
Ten miles--on his hands and knees. Crawling, creeping through the night.
His shoes were mud-caked. He was scratched and limping, utterly
exhausted.

But ahead of him lay Oak Grove.

He took a deep breath and started down the hill. Twice he stumbled and
fell, picking himself up and trudging on. His ears rang. Everything
receded and wavered. But he was there. He had got out, away from
Pikeville.

A farmer in a field gaped at him. From a house a young woman watched in
wonder. Loyce reached the road and turned onto it. Ahead of him was a
gasoline station and a drive-in. A couple of trucks, some chickens
pecking in the dirt, a dog tied with a string.

The white-clad attendant watched suspiciously as he dragged himself up
to the station. "Thank God." He caught hold of the wall. "I didn't think
I was going to make it. They followed me most of the way. I could hear
them buzzing. Buzzing and flitting around behind me."

"What happened?" the attendant demanded. "You in a wreck? A hold-up?"

Loyce shook his head wearily. "They have the whole town. The City Hall
and the police station. They hung a man from the lamppost. That was the
first thing I saw. They've got all the roads blocked. I saw them
hovering over the cars coming in. About four this morning I got beyond
them. I knew it right away. I could feel them leave. And then the sun
came up."

The attendant licked his lip nervously. "You're out of your head. I
better get a doctor."

"Get me into Oak Grove," Loyce gasped. He sank down on the gravel.
"We've got to get started--cleaning them out. Got to get started right
away."
