
"Simple," said Cassidy. "Just like I said." He was hunched over his
coffee, his ham-like hands soaking up the warmth from the cup.

"Simple," said Dillon. "I don't get it. Just why did they stop me from
treating the woman?"

"We come from the stars, which the natives associate with the home of
the Gods. We don't look quite like their legends say Gods should, but
they figured we must be close to them, so they credited us with
omnipotent powers. The priests claimed the cures they affected were done
with the grace of the almighty, and the natives figured your cures came
from the same source."

"I can't figure why they wouldn't even let me touch her," said Dillon.
"It doesn't make sense."

"Actually, if you had given her the shot without me on the scene, and
she had died, they probably would have accepted it as the will of the
Gods. The priests fail once in awhile, and they just claim that the Gods
have wanted that particular person to die. But when you were unable to
save me, another man from the stars, and therefore presumably a close
acquaintance of the Almighty, they could come to only one conclusion:
The Gods withdrew their blessings from you. After that they wouldn't
have let you touch a sick pig--if they have pigs here." He drained his
cup.

A roar sounded down from the sky, building up into a wail that scraped
the spines of the hearers. It rose to a crescendo, and then came a
jarring shock that shuddered the whole building.

"My chauffeur," said Cassidy. "Hot-rodding, as usual." He rose, and
picked up his baggage.

"You know, Dillon," he said, "You're a jerk. I'll tell my grandchildren
about you. You're a perfect example of what not to do." He shook his
head. "A horrible example."

[Illustration]


END
