
Jimmy was a favorite among the other pilots at Pacific Field. They liked
his sunny disposition and his hearty laugh. But business was business,
and he had invited competition by trying to break into their established
commercial traffic. They dubbed his plane the “Calico Peacock,” and
kidded him unmercifully about his inability to get any passengers into
it. Jimmy did not mind their fun, but the situation began to get
desperate. He would have moved to some roadside cow pasture and tried to
pick up passengers from the highway, but he owed the field a
forty-dollar hangar bill and had nothing with which to pay it. He was
considering putting the Calico Peacock on the auction block and knocking
it off to the highest bidder when he had his first lucky break.

It happened early one Saturday morning. Jimmy’s Calico Peacock was one
of the first aeroplanes on the starting line. After he had made sure
that enough gasoline remained in the tanks to accommodate a passenger if
some miracle should happen and one should appear, Jimmy wandered over to
the field headquarters and stretched his lean, lanky frame against the
side of the Administration Building to soak up some of the warmth of the
morning sun.

Sunshine was not a very satisfactory substitute for a hearty breakfast,
but Jimmy couldn’t afford the breakfast, and the sun was free. He had
not been there long when the field superintendent came out of his office
and looked questioningly down the field toward the spot where the
commercial passenger planes were being trundled out onto the field. It
was so early that none of the flying salesmen had appeared.

“Got a job for somebody, Cap?” Jimmy asked eagerly.

The field superintendent looked at Jimmy for a moment and then grinned.

“Made to order for you,” he chuckled. “But don’t blame me; you asked for
it.”
