
_It worked_, Paul gloated.

A waiter passed carrying a tray of appetizers. Paul closed his eyes,
"thought" one into his mouth and tasted the sharp salty flavor of
anchovy. This was fun!

Next he noticed a glossy dame sitting near the center of the bar
pushing out her front until it reminded him of twin cannons. So she
thought she could scrounge another drink from the guy next to her,
huh? Why didn't she just pick his pocket and be done with it?

Why not indeed? Effortlessly the man's wallet flew out of his hip
pocket and arced down into her low-cut bodice. The girl angled her
popping eyes downward. Paul chuckled to himself as she slipped off the
stool and headed for the ladies' room.

It was all so easy.

If he could manipulate his new-found power so cleverly, why not do
something truly epic? Like dropping a brick on his boss's head.
Or--come to think of it--how about putting some money into his own
pocket?

The cashier at the end of the bar rang up a sale. Then with the cash
drawer still open his attention was attracted by a waiter. Opportunity!
With hardly any effort at all Paul transferred a ten-dollar bill from
the drawer into his shirt pocket. It crackled excitingly as he pressed
it flat with a casual hand.

Pure excitement swept him. He could do anything! Move into the really
spectacular. He could--could even rob a bank!

Thus when the armored truck pulled up across the street his mind was
conditioned for its arrival. Through the window he saw the rear door
open. Then two armed guards emerged. Bored by the routine, one of them
actually yawned as a third guard appeared from the theatre entrance in
front of which they were parked. He was carrying a satchel.

As he handed it into the truck Paul's mind worked automatically. Then
he watched as the guards vanished inside the truck and closed the door.
The truck spouted a white exhaust and pulled away.
