
Something moved in the shadows, edging into the deeper shadows of the
rocks. It was the pursuing female of earlier that afternoon.

Abdul Hakkim ben Salazar, in deep, abdominal disgust, groaned.

"Come here, you!" Colonel Glinka commanded. "Come on over here. Don't be
afraid, my little one--I won't hurt you."

She advanced ever so little, a shapeless white wraith attracted by the
syrup in his voice. He took one step forward. Carefully she retreated a
step.

"Come now," Colonel Glinka said. "Surely it is time that we met. For you
may as well know that I am now the master of this island. Now and
forevermore, so far as you are concerned, my child. Perhaps I may let
you help me clear up a little of its mystery."

She kept a maddening five or six feet between them, somehow. He could
not lessen the distance without alarming her. And so he balanced himself
upon the balls of his feet and lunged.

She gave a little cry, stumbled and fell, rolling over and over into a
dark little depression beside the path as he clutched at her robe. The
garment, still in his hand, unwound easily, peeling her very much like
an apple.

"I beg your pardon," Colonel Glinka said, scrambling after her upon his
hands and knees, groping for her with outstretched arms. "I beg--" His
hand touched something which might have been her ankle. He seized it,
held it for a moment, and then, shuddering, let it go, drawing back his
hand as if it had been stabbed. By now the night was quite dark.

Colonel Glinka scrambled to his feet, half instinctively raised the
deadly Malacca cane.

"Don't do it, Joe!" cried Abdul, coming up from behind him and shoving
him hard.

The shot went wild, but the sound of it, echoing up and down the ravine,
started an ominous, new sound, the growing, staccato murmur of many
voices, a rattling of stones, a hundred different movements in the
blackness.

Colonel Glinka fired the last bullet more wildly still, hurled the
Malacca cane at them, and ran.
