
The telephone operator had been listening since the receiver was flung
off its hook by the fall of the telephone. She had spoken several
times, asking what was wanted, and the sound had issued from the
receiver on the floor like--well--like the chuckle of a man amused
in a horrible fashion. When she heard screaming, she sent men to
investigate. And they found a dead man tumbled out of the chair in
which he had died, and another man crawling about the room. The living
man was crawling about on his hands and knees, his eyes wide and
staring and terrified, while a huge pet cat made playful pounces at his
trouser-leg, tugging at it, worrying it, pulling backward upon it. And
whenever the cat pulled at the bit of cloth, the living man screamed in
a sickly, terrified fashion.

[Illustration: "A huge pet cat made playful pounces at his trousers."]

They never did get at the rights of the matter, but the coroner was
somewhat annoyed by the cat, during the inquest. He was sitting in the
chair the dead man had sat in, beside the table on which the telephone
stood. And the cat buffeted his coat-tails; hanging down, with playful
pats of its paws. The sound was very much like that of a man drumming
softly and meditatively upon a table.

But it was not that which annoyed the coroner. He liked cats. What did
annoy him was the fact that he had put his lighted cigarette on the
edge of the table for an instant, and the cat sank its claws in the
table-cover. With the jerk, the cigarette fell from the table into the
coroner's pocket, and burned a hole through to the skin.

"If that cigarette had been in its case, now," said the coroner,
smiling at his own feeble joke, "it wouldn't have done any harm."

