
"I nodded. 'If these kid brothers of yours can run around mald-bottom
in space without catching cold, then I guess you can probably send a
whale from one planet to another by mind power--by psionics.'

"'But that's not really what you want?' the boy persisted.

"I nodded. 'Even psionics can't do what I really want. A _Delta_ class
freighter can do almost anything, but it can't transport an adult blue
whale across space. Still, that's what I really want it to do, and it's
that desire that you are apparently picking out of my mind.'

"Jim frowned for a couple of minutes in deep concentration while Mike
and Aloysius nudged each other slyly, gradually got more rambunctious,
and finally lost their tempers and started a half-wrestling,
half-boxing tussle.

"Jim clapped his hands together sharply, twice. The kids quieted down
abruptly, looking at Jim indignantly and rubbing their posteriors. At
the same time, Jim picked a small box out of the air and handed it to
me with a flamboyant gesture.

"Lettered on the box was the neatly printed instruction 'EAT ME'.

"'Shades of Lewis Carroll,' I said to myself, opening the box and
looking at the little cakes inside.

"'Go ahead, sir,' chorused Mike and Aloysius, 'Don't be chicken!'

"I looked at the pill-sized cakes for a minute. Then I shrugged my
shoulders and tossed them all down at once, like taking a shot of
whiskey neat. For a few seconds nothing happened except for an odd sort
of fizzling feeling inside, and then suddenly I started to shrink, just
like Alice in Wonderland. I hardly had time to notice that the whole
Monahan tribe was shrinking right along with me, before I found that I
was having trouble breathing, and it was as if my insides were trying
to climb up past my Adam's apple. I couldn't talk, so I tried hard to
give Jim Monahan a dirty look before I passed out, which I promptly did.
