
"Meanwhile," he said, riffling the case history of Sara Caffey, "let
us examine the evidence at hand. Our patient arrived in Paris
positively cancerous. After confirming the diagnosis, I proposed an
unprecedented treatment based on my theory. We know several body
conditions which promote the rapid development of carcinoma, such as
excess alkalinity and high blood sugar content and so forth. Instead
of trying to reduce these and fight the tumor, I reversed the
treatment and aided Miss Caffey's body to support and encourage its
growth to what I predicted would be a new maturity.

"And what happened?" He threw up his hands. "In two months, the
tendrils of the octopus withdrew into the central body of the tumor.
The tendency to spread in search for attenuated nourishment was
reversed with the treatment. This alone was an accomplishment, for it
would have made the growth operable in a short time.

"Unfortunately, word of my unorthodox prescription reached a jealous
colleague, and he set off such a quarrel at the Institute that Miss
Caffey packed up and left with the generous misconception that she was
saving me from embarrassment. I had no opportunity to assure her that
the Cancer Institute would decide ultimately in my favor--which it
shall when I return with a photostat of a certain birth certificate."

He smiled for the first time, and his charm was so powerful that I
sincerely wanted to believe in him. I could see no use in denying him
his request, for his prescriptions were of an innocuous nature for a
normally pregnant woman such as Sara Caffey. I trusted that a normal
birth of a typical baby would finally dissuade him.

I extended my hand again. "You are most welcome to stay with us,
doctor," I told him. "The treatment you desire is within reason, and I
admire your tenacity with your theory. I hope you will forgive me,
however, if I say that I find your premises rather tenuous. I feel
that we will witness a very normal birth, and ultimately Miss Caffey
will find it to her peace of mind to confess a secret marriage, or, at
most--an alliance of which she may be pathologically ashamed at the
moment."

Sansome grasped my hand with enthusiasm. "_Bien! Tres bien!_" he
exclaimed. "This is more generous even than I expected. Certainly I do
not expect a scientist of your station to swallow my theory at a gulp,
Dr. Foley. I will admit that my persistence depends more than it
should on intuition. But we shall see. I am grateful to you." And he
kissed me firmly on each cheek.
