
He helped her free herself from the huge foil chute that had borne her
through the atmospheric maelstrom; then, side by side, they set off
over the ragged hills. She spoke no more, and neither did he, till
they reached the site of the base. Little was to be seen, save for the
geometric pattern of the non-corrosive footings he had laid, and the
small stockpile of structural steel he had begun to build up. "Our main
concern now is production," he said. "What's your maximum open-hearth
output, EV?"

"Three hundred Earth-tons a day."

He was dumfounded. "Why, I can only turn out one hundred and
twenty-five!"

"I was specially built," she said proudly. "The Company foresaw the
need of me long ago."

"But your mining operation will hold you up, and so will your pig-iron
output. Your skip-arms aren't strong enough--I can tell that just by
looking at you."

"No, but yours are. For all its vaunted powers in allied fields, a
M.A.N. is mainly a mining machine, whereas a W.O.M.A.N. is intended
primarily for melting, processing, and creating. You can mine much
faster than you can melt; I can melt much faster than I can mine.
Therefore, it is the Company's wish that we work as a team. From now
on, you will charge my open hearth in addition to your own. For that
reason I was created with an exterior charger-door, while you were
created with an exterior charger-keel. Haven't you ever wondered what
the additional appendage was for?"

8M sighed. "The Company doesn't overlook a thing, does it?" he said.
And then, "Well, if we're going to embark upon such a strenuous
schedule, I think we'd better get some rest first. I'm sure you must be
worn out from your intensive-training period, and as for myself, I've
been on the go for sixteen hours straight."

"I am a little beat at that," she said.

"There's a sheltered valley not far from here where we can sleep."
