
Randolph Carter stopped in the pitch darkness and rubbed his hand
across his eyes. Something was queer. He had been somewhere he ought
not to be; had strayed very far away to places where he had not
belonged, and was now inexcusably late. He had not noticed the time on
the Kingsport steeple, though he could easily have made it out with
his pocket telescope; but he knew his lateness was something very
strange and unprecedented. He was not sure he had his little telescope
with him, and put his hand in his blouse pocket to see. No, it was
not there, but there was the big silver key he had found in a box
somewhere. Uncle Chris had told him something odd once about an old
unopened box with a key in it, but Aunt Martha had stopped the story
abruptly, saying it was no kind of thing to tell a child whose head was
already too full of queer fancies. He tried to recall just where he
had found the key, but something seemed very confused. He guessed it
was in the attic at home in Boston, and dimly remembered bribing Parks
with half his week's allowance to help him open the box and keep quiet
about it; but when he remembered this, the face of Parks came up very
strangely, as if the wrinkles of long years had fallen upon the brisk
little cockney.

"Ran--dee! Ran--dee! Hi! Hi! Randy!"

A swaying lantern came around the black bend, and old Benijah pounced
on the silent and bewildered form of the pilgrim.

"Durn ye, boy, so thar ye be! Ain't ye got a tongue in yer head, that
ye can't answer a body? I ben callin' this haff hour, an' ye must a
heerd me long ago! Don't ye know yer Aunt Marthy's all a-fidget over
yer bein' off arter dark? Wait till I tell yer Uncle Chris when he
gets hum! Ye'd orta know these here woods ain't no fitten place to be
traipsin' this hour! They's things abroad what dun't do nobody no good,
as my gran'sir' knowed afur me. Come, Mister Randy, or Hannah wun't
keep supper no longer!"

So Randolph Carter was marched up the road where wondering stars
glimmered through high autumn boughs. And dogs barked as the yellow
light of small-paned windows shone out at the farther turn, and the
Pleiades twinkled across the open knoll where a great gambrel roof
stood black against the dim west. Aunt Martha was in the doorway, and
did not scold too hard when Benijah shoved the truant in. She knew
Uncle Chris well enough to expect such things of the Carter blood.
Randolph did not show his key, but ate his supper in silence and
protested only when bedtime came. He sometimes dreamed better when
awake, and he wanted to use that key.

In the morning Randolph was up early, and would have run off to the
upper timber-lot if Uncle Chris had not caught him and forced him
into his chair by the breakfast table. He looked impatiently around
the low-pitched room with the rag carpet and exposed beams and
corner-posts, and smiled only when the orchard boughs scratched at the
little leaded panes of the rear window. The trees and the hills were
close to him, and formed the gates of that timeless realm which was his
true country.

Then, when he was free, he felt in his blouse pocket for the key; and
being reassured, skipped off across the orchard to the rise beyond,
where the wooded hill climbed again to heights above even the treeless
knoll. The floor of the forest was mossy and mysterious, and great
lichened rocks rose vaguely here and there in the dim light like druid
monoliths among the swollen and twisted trunks of a sacred grove. Once
in his ascent Randolph crossed a rushing stream whose falls a little
way off sang runic incantations to the lurking fauns and Ã¦gipans and
dryads.

Then he came to the strange cave in the forest slope, the dreaded
"snake-den" which country folk shunned, and away from which Benijah had
warned him again and again. It was deep; far deeper than anyone but
Randolph suspected, for the boy had found a fissure in the farthermost
black corner that led to a loftier grotto beyond--a haunting sepulchral
place whose granite walls held a curious illusion of conscious
artifice. On this occasion he crawled in as usual, lighting his way
with matches filched from the sitting-room match-safe, and edging
through the final crevice with an eagerness hard to explain even to
himself. He could not tell why he approached the farther wall so
confidently, or why he instinctively drew forth the great silver key as
he did so. But on he went, and when he danced back to the house that
night he offered no excuses for his lateness, nor heeded in the least
the reproofs he gained for ignoring the noontide dinner-horn altogether.
