
Miotis' brow knit in thought. A planet called Earth, he thought. H'mm!
But how were they to get to it? And having got there, did Kannot want
them to invade? No, that couldn't be it. Already, the very thought of
invading for purposes of conquest went against him.

"... On that planet," Kannot continued, "wars and death by violence are
commonplace. There is never a day or week that does not pass but that
somewhere men fight men. What better goal do we need?"

"You have done well," Miotis said. "I could ask for no more. Yet a
question persists in my mind. How can you arrange for anger to come to
the breasts of us here from the planet beyond the grey mists of outer
space? We have no space ships, nor for that matter, the means of making
them."

"I speak not of space ships or of men using them," Kannot responded,
"for in that matter we have no choice. My thought was in another
direction and using another means. I have discovered the way to make a
soul-transfer. To put it into words you will better understand, I can do
what death does, hold a soul in suspense."

"Which is supposed to have what meaning to me?" Miotis asked.

"Simply this," Kannot said, "I can make a single soul fly through the
vast boundaries of space and into another human body which will be
waiting for it. There is but a single man I know who can serve as
vehicle--you, mighty Chieftain."

For the first time, Miotis' features showed change from the set
expression he wore as a sign of his Kingship. Amazement made him blink,
and the hand holding his chin fell to the side of the throne, the
fingers tapping against the rich cloth. But after a minute, his face
cleared and he looked with brighter interest at his vizier.

"Of course," he said. "Who else should go? And already I have a plan of
action. Now tell me what must be done and how soon...."
