
Stanton felt a sudden elation. More, a consciousness of vast powers. He
was immune to death. But were his companions? He looked Mary full in the
eyes as he said: "It seems that nothing can kill me now, even violence.
What of you?"

She knew what he meant. And with as little hesitation as he had shown,
did what he did with the blade in her fingers. Her face in an instant
became a grotesque mask of pain and horror. A fountain of blood poured
from the self-inflicted wound. She tried to say something as she sank to
her knees, but nothing came out.

"Only he is immortal," Naila said, awed. "For look! Mary is already
gone. Hail immortal...."

It was the acknowledgement of his supremacy.

He took advantage of it on the instant. "Good. I can use you all. We
must first rid ourselves of these men, my enemies. Come, call the others
of your tribe and I will lead you to them."

He knew without being told that there were many more of these women. For
surely not so few would have come, armed as they were, into a strange
land. At his words, several of them sped around a headland which hid the
cove beyond. Naila took his arm and led him forward. His eyes widened
when he saw the four sailing ships in the large bay beyond the headland.

There were five hundred women all armed and all ready and willing, when
they heard the situation, to do his bidding. Nor did he take long to
give his commands.

Daylight was breaking when they came to the tunnel which was the
headquarters for the tribe from which Bly Stanton had come. He deployed
his forces with the greatest of care, making sure the surprise would be
complete when he came out. Then he entered. He knew at this hour that
his men would be asleep. He was right. There were two hundred of the
women with him, and these he placed all along the tunnel length, telling
them to hide in the recesses along the walls.
