
Through the brain of Bly Stanton shot a thought that was like an
arrow--he, alone, of all the males in the world. What sort of world
could it be? What was he to do in this world where there was nothing but
woman, and man had no place? He peered at these women and saw them for
what they were--beasts, cruel and vicious, shaped as humans. There was
no compromising with nature. If one did not serve the purpose for which
one was intended, then one served another purpose. He looked at these
women who were the rulers of this planet and knew they had an empty
rule, and a losing fight. For immortality, in the sense in which he had
achieved it, was lost to them.

He shook his head from side to side, and slowly turning, started off
without a word of farewell.

But Naila was not as Mary. There was a cunning in her which the other
had never possessed. Before Stanton had taken more than ten steps, she
was at his side. Her sword flashed in a blinding arc as it sped toward
the man. There was a sickening sound as the steel met the flesh of the
throat. And a bloody geyser bloomed where the head had been. A vicious
grin leaped to her lips as she stooped and lifted the head.

But the grin changed to a howl of fear as the eyes suddenly opened and
the lips parted and words came from them: "You forgot, Naila. Death
comes not to me. Remember?"

She dropped the head and sped for the ship. The others, witness to what
happened, followed as quickly as possible. What they did not see, of
course, was that the eyes and lips had closed forever on the instant of
their departure.

_For it was then that the soul of Miotis left the body of Bly Stanton._
