
  =F=lylea=F=
  =I=ndig=O=
  =R=ondra=U=
  =E=a=R=
  =C=a=T=
  =R=oac=H=
  =A=ls=O=
  =C=hie=F=
  =K=ca=J=
  =E=m=U=
  =R=il=L=
  =S=l=Y=

The first five perfect solutions were received from

  Harry Yates,
  Dora Makay,
  Mary Folsom Pierce,
  Ellsworth Wright,
  L. M. Lawrence.


SQUARE WORDS

  A mazazine.
  A fine clay.
  Radical.
  A teacher.
  Part of the body.

  --_Katherine D. Salisbury._


HIDDEN BIRDS

In each of the following sentences are two hidden birds. Can you find
them?

1. I see a gleaner, and he is her only son.

2. If Kit ever does mew, rent is due.

3. “I can spar, row, and fence, sir,” Ed Bird said.

4. Formerly all arks floated on the river Obi, now almost unknown.

5. Just hear! He always lieth! Rush him!

6. Laugh, awkward fellow, laugh, for this is your day, but, lo! on the
morrow you will be in tears.

  --_Charles C. Lynde._


PRESIDENTS

In the following are the names of two Presidents of the United States:

Nsncoowlnaglihnti.

  --_Percival C. Lancefield._


DIAMOND

        .       A consonant.
      . . .     A vehicle.
    . . . . .   A beast of burden.
  . . . . . . . A noted man.
    . . . . .   To set again.
      . . .     A quantity.
        .       A consonant.

  --_Julia E. C._


THE ESCAPE

A Northern soldier was captured while visiting a friend in the South
during the Civil War. He was tried and condemned to be shot at
daybreak, as a spy, in spite of the protestations of his host. During
the night a letter, after passing through the hands of his captors, was
delivered to him. In the morning the room in which he had been confined
was empty. He had escaped. The letter, which was in the handwriting of
the owner of the house, furnished the clue to the escape. Can you see
how? It was as follows:

“Kamby says Edith is worse. You asked me to write if she began to fail,
and I am complying with your request. So, if the Union of the North can
spare you, come. Do not delay, for Edith is very ill. Remember, she is
waiting for you.

  “Most sorrowfully,
  “Adjutant Thomas.”

  --_Leslie W. Quirk._




[Illustration: IN-DOORS]

PARLOR MAGIC

By Ellis Stanyon


THE HANDKERCHIEF CABINET.--This very useful piece of apparatus should
be in the repertoire of every amateur magician, as it is available
for producing, changing, or vanishing a handkerchief. Its secret lies
in the fact that it contains two drawers, bottom to bottom, the lower
one being hidden by a sliding panel. When standing on the table the top
drawer only is visible, and the cabinet looks the picture of innocence,
but if turned over and stood on its opposite end, the sliding panel
falls, exposing the hidden drawer, and hiding that which for the time
being is at the bottom. (Fig. 12.) The cabinet is about two inches
square by four inches high.

[Illustration: Fig. 12.]

If required for production, you proceed as follows: Having placed a
silk handkerchief in the concealed drawer, introduce the cabinet, take
out the empty drawer, and give it for examination. Replace the drawer,
secretly turn over the cabinet, and place it on your table. You now go
through any form of incantation you please, open the drawer, and take
out the handkerchief.

If you desire to vanish the handkerchief, you will have it placed in
the drawer by one of the spectators, and while going to the table turn
over the box. When the drawer is opened the handkerchief will have
disappeared.

Should you wish to change one handkerchief for another, you will,
beforehand, conceal, say, a red handkerchief in the cabinet; then,
taking a white one, have it deposited in the upper drawer, turn over
the cabinet as before, pull out the now uppermost drawer, and produce
the red handkerchief.

From the foregoing description it will be obvious that the cabinet is
capable of being used in conjunction with many tricks.




Transcriber’s Notes:


A number of typographical errors have been corrected silently.

Irregularities in closing quotes have not been modernized.

Archaic spellings have been retained.

The table of contents refers to a “With the Publisher” page that
does not exist in the transcribed image so does not exist in the
transcription.

“A Novel Weapon” was added to the original Table of Contents.

Cover image is in the public domain.