
"Corey," complained Lucille, "you _know_ you're not going to read
_Vanity Fair_ or _Coningsby_. You've started them a hundred times,
and always lost interest. We could use the space for a hundred better
things."

Corey shoved the books doggedly back into the slot from which his wife
had taken them on the bookshelf, and set his back stubbornly against
them, glaring at her. "Those are records," he said, fighting an urge to
shout. "The society of Thackeray's time, the British school system of
Disraeli's. Some day our children will want to know what the world was
like before the disaster."

"Why?" said his wife. "What they don't know won't hurt them. They'll
never wonder about it if you don't prod them to. And why should they
know about _Vanity Fair_ and _Coningsby_ anyhow? _You've_ survived this
long without knowing!"

"All right, all right!" snarled Corey, whirling to the shelf, and
pulling books out by the handful. "Fill the space with Wheaties, or
movie magazines! Or home permanents and lipstick! To hell with our
children's minds!"

"Corey, stop it!" hollered Lucille, trying to pick the books from the
shelter floor as he hurled them there, then giving up and simply trying
to pin his flailing arms. His elbow struck her in the chest, and she
fell back with a startled grunt. Corey, his face white, started toward
her with words of remorse on his lips, then tripped ingloriously upon
the heaped volumes and sprawled on his face at her feet.

Lucille sank into a chair as he rose groggily on hands and knees, and
began to laugh. Corey, after a second, began to match her laughter with
his own. Then he frowned and stopped. Her laughter was all wrong. He
took her by the shoulders and shook her, but she kept on laughing while
the tears ran down her contorted face.
