
As he slowly cruised above the CrÃªpe Ring, with his binoculars to his
eyes, Timkin munched a sandwich and now and then took a swig of coffee.
In all their explorations of other worlds earthmen had never found any
beverage better than time-honored coffee, though the Martians tried
hard to sell a green-tinted product called _tukka_.

Timkin's hand gave a little jerk, and his binoculars wavered. Watching
him one would have thought he had spied something exciting--like gold.
But it was something else, almost equally as startling....

"Another _Jetabout_!" Timkin murmured. "Gave me a start, seeing it so
suddenly."

It was a rare event when two wandering _Jetabouts_ happened to cross
paths in the vast area of the rings, almost like two explorers in the
heart of Africa meeting each other. Timkin grinned humorlessly.

"Another chump!" he thought. "He wouldn't have a bonanza, or he'd be
streaking back for Titan. He's cruising and looking for something like
me."

Timkin flashed his heliograph, reflecting the light of Saturn, at the
other ship. An answering greeting flashed back. Timkin watched it as it
kept going on its course and slowly faded into distance. He felt less
lonely for a moment.

Timkin went back to his scanning of the ring bodies with his glasses.
He saw another lump of coal but was too wearied at the thought of
donning his vac-suit for it, and let it go by under him. It was
not till a minute later that he snapped to attention. For now he
remembered, belatedly, that he had also seen a yellow glow near the
black coal.

"Day-dreaming, that's what I was!" he yelled, hastily braking and
spinning the _Jetabout_ around. "If that was gold, and I don't find it
again, I'll...."

It was not easy to backtrack in the rings, and find a certain spot you
had passed over. The rings were constantly in motion, in their orbit
around Saturn. And each body in the rings had its own private motion in
respect to the others. Some gyrated fantastically around others.

A huge body might in turn exert enough gravitation of its own to hold
smaller bodies in its grip, and force them to become its "moons." And
these satellites then perturbed nearby bodies, causing them to weave
and shuttle within the ring.

In short, any body in the ring might shift position enough in the space
of a minute or two to be lost forever.

Timkin shot back to the coal lump. Yes, the coal lump was there, not
having a complicated private motion. But where was the yellow lump that
his blind eyes had seen--and ignored? There were a hundred other little
bodies around the coal lump and to look them all over one by one....

Timkin's heart sank to its lowest ebb before suddenly he saw the yellow
glint again. Then, thankfully, he shot the _Jetabout_ over it and
hovered, locking the controls. Minutes later in his vac-suit he was
propelling himself down to the yellow lump via reaction pistol.

"It's only fool's gold, of course," he told himself to calm his
wildly racing pulse. "Just think of it as fool's gold, so you won't
be disappointed again. Or it could be cheap copper. So don't get
excited--yet."

Timkin reached the yellow body, fumbled with his pick and finally
chipped off a piece. He noticed it sheared off under the hard pick,
rather than chipped. He dared to hope it was soft gold. And when he
held the bit to his visor....

"Gold!"

He said the one word quietly. Then he sat down on the lump, shaken.

"Gold," he repeated. "I hit it--gold! My bonanza! My dream for ten
years!"

It was minutes before he could control his shaking nerves and allow
the warm glow of exultation to spread through him like wine, giving
him new strength. He arose and, like a bird, made a circle around the
lump, using his reaction pistol. He estimated its weight as a thousand
pounds, earth measure. Then he stopped to stand on it again, a king on
an island.

"Of course, it ain't pure gold," Timkin told himself. "But it looks
like about fifty percent pure. They say the first moon before it
exploded didn't have many seas to dissolve and thin out ore deposits.
So I can figure about five hundred pounds of gold. At the pegged rate
of thirty-seven SS-dollars an ounce...."

Timkin's head was too light and buzzy to reach the total.

"But I'm rich," he exulted. "Filthy rich. Gold is even more valuable
today than it used to be on earth in the old days."
