
                           The Furious Rose

                             By DEAN EVANS

                         Illustrated by THORNE

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Galaxy Science Fiction January 1952.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




         This world was a setup for any man who wanted to get
     along--provided one had enough victims to toss to the wolves!


The Master Clock on the black desk in the office of _Federal
Executions_ made a quiet blipping sound. Immediately the lights lowered
to Emote Neutral. Long, probing shadow fingers snaked here and there
across the floor, and a silence that should have been restful--and
wasn't--descended on the place.

Tony Radek leaned back in his chair and frowned. One-fifteen in the
morning. At one-fifteen in the morning no man, no matter who, should be
going to his Neg-Emote. Why not hang a man instead? Or electrocute him?
Or gas him the way they used to back in the old days? In those old days
his grandfather used to talk about, where twelve ordinary citizens said
the word that peeled the life off a man like skinning an onion.

He sighed softly and folded his hands across a tiny paunch that was
just beginning to show. Tony Radek was getting old. He was a "safe"
now. That meant he needn't worry about the war any longer. He was
a nice, mild, peaceable gentleman who stayed at home and thought
beautiful thoughts about the younger men out in space. A man his age
didn't feel anger and hate and retribution and lust and treachery any
more. He was just a little old fat guy. He was the Federal Executioner.

He frowned again and leaned forward and touched a nacre button on the
desk top. That lit up the screen on his left. Not the Master Screen,
which was the one on his right. This was the other, the one that could
tell him what was going on outside the office, outside in _Portal
Waiting_, where certain peculiar ghouls who derived a measure of
excitement from the executions were allowed by the gracious State to
hang out.

He stared at the screen. His frown deepened. _Portal Waiting_ should be
bare and vacant at this hour, but it wasn't. This was the third night
in a row that it wasn't. There was a girl out there. A quiet girl, a
girl who looked about as ghoulish as one of the nice red ritual roses
over in the cooler built into the wall.

_Damn the dame, why didn't she go home?_ Tony Radek's upper lip lifted
a little, showing small angry teeth.

At once the Emote Neutral lights in the office flickered wildly. Tony
pulled his eyes from the screen and glared up at the lights. That's
progress for you. Let a man go on one little momentary emotional
binge, like this, and right away spies in the joint start screaming.
In a moment now, the one on his right--the Master Screen--would blink
into life and old hell-hips himself would start poking around asking
questions. Just see if it didn't.

He turned his head to the right, stared at the Master Screen and waited.

The screen blazed into life. A narrow-faced man with washed-away eyes
that looked as though they'd seen sin and hadn't liked it peered
angrily over toward Tony behind the desk.

"_Mr._ Radek!" he had a thin, thin voice that sounded like a sheet of
paper slitting down the middle. "What's going on down there? Can't you
control your own office? Or maybe you'd like to be back in Training?"
The eyes squinted sharply.

Tony worked up an innocent look. He spread his hands on the black
surface of the desk, smiled, and said mildly: "Out of your mind. My
lights have been as steady as old Emote Neutral herself. Probably that
blonde you got Central Direction kidded into thinking you need as an
assistant--probably you sneaked up on her when she was in Personal Lok
and...."

"What?" The Master Screen trembled a little and the narrow-faced man's
eyes seemed to jerk out of registration for a moment. "Look here,
Radek, I've stood just about enough of your insinuations!"

"Look who's making the lights flicker now," said Tony calmly. He waved
an arm around the office. Emote Neutral was flickering rapidly as
though controlled by an interrupter switch. "Central Direction should
see this," he observed.

He stared briefly at the contorted face on the screen. That face was
working convulsively now, getting red like the ritual roses over in the
cooler.

He snorted disgustedly, reached forward and touched the matswitch which
threw the Master Screen into visi-lok. At once the screen darkened and
all sound left the office.

That was more like it. Let old hell-hips up in Supplies and Control
stew if he wanted, there wasn't anything in the Constitution--not even
the old Constitution--that said a man had to sit and look at him.

"_Central Direction to Radek!_" a hard voice rapped out of the
alternate speaker over in the corner.

Tony Radek jerked, spun around. He swallowed quickly, said nervously:
"Yes, sir?"

"Radek, you're violating Ordinance Six, Code 325, Division of Security!
Unlock that visi-screen at once!"

"Yes, sir." Tony's hand flew to the matswitch, pulled it. "Sorry. Elbow
must have hit it accidentally. Didn't know it was locked...."

"Radek, there's a war on. That visi-lok must be used only in emergency.
You know that."

"Yes, sir. Like I said...."

"I heard. In the future, be a little more careful. And, Radek--"

"Yes, sir?"

"Ready Cell Two. Execution at one-twenty-seven. John Edward Haley.
Convicted of mass interference of morale, City of Greater New Denver,
as outlined under Congressional Act of April 12, 2250. Decision
rendered equally on all three Final Master Machines."

"No appeal?" asked Tony very softly.

"No appeal. And, Radek--"

"Yes, sir?"

"The condemned is married. Check with Supplies and Control for bill of
divorcement. His wife is a young woman, will have to marry again in the
morning as outlined under Congressional Act of May 28, 2211. Got that?"

"Yes, sir."

The Master Screen went dead. Tony blinked. Bill of divorcement. Will
have to marry again in the morning as outlined under Congressional Act.
By God, that's progress for you! He sat staring at the Master Screen
for a long time.

Then he sighed, punched the button on Supplies and Control.

"Hell-hips!" he growled. "Snap it up. Execution at one-twenty-seven.
Bill of divorcement."

The narrow face peered sourly out at him from the Master Screen. It
didn't have much emotion in it now. It was almost blank, like the face
of a humanoid robot somebody'd left something out of.

"Been hittin' the bottle again, huh?" said Tony.

"My name is Clacker, _Mr._ Radek. Arthur Jared Clacker. Kindly keep
that in mind when you address me."

"Sure, sure. Nice name. Lovely name. Sounds like a stone-boat going
over ground glass. Whip up that bill of divorcement."

"It's ready, _Mr._ Radek. _Been_ ready for the last half hour.
I suggest that if there were a little of my own well known and
demonstrated efficiency in _your_ office, perhaps Executions would
be something to be proud of. Instead of what it is. Instead of the
foul-smelling, sloppily run, lice-infested...."

Tony's hand reached out for the button on Supplies and Control. "Watch
those lights," he said tiredly.

       *       *       *       *       *

He got up from the desk, stretched a little and went across the office
to the cooler in the opposite wall. His feet made no noise; he had that
quiet tread that all cats, a few men and some women achieve. His hand
interrupted the automatic cellgard and a tiny, almost hidden door in
the wall swung wide. He reached up, poked his hand in the cooler, felt
around. A little smile came into his eyes. He took his hand out of the
cooler, got up on tiptoes and looked inside. No roses. Not even one
rose.

Not even _half_ of a rose.

Chuckling, he went back to the desk and jabbed a finger at the button
over Supplies and Control.

"Hell-hips!" he rapped. "Where's all that well known and demonstrated
efficiency I've had to rake out of my ears?"

The narrow face lit up the Master Screen once more. It looked bored
now. "_Mr._ Radek, there was something?"

"Yeah. Something." Tony's voice dropped, got deadly soft. "How many
weeks since you checked the cooler, boy? There aren't any ritual roses."

"There--there aren't any?"

"That's right, Mr. Clacker. Now get away from that screen. I'm
reporting this to Central Direction." His finger jammed down on the
Supplies and Control button. He watched the Master Screen go blank and
grinned. He thought, "Shake a little, Mr. Clacker, shake a little,"
because he didn't dare even whisper to himself.

He sat down at the desk again and thought of something. His finger went
out, touched the button on the screen on the left--the _Portal Waiting_
screen.

She was still there, hunched up in one of the chairs like a small child
somebody had left in an interplanet waiting room and then gone away and
forgotten. Tony frowned once more. Damn that dame, she was spoiling his
nights.

He got up, crossed the office on silent feet, opened the door of
Executions, went down a bare, silent hall. At the levelators he waited
a moment for the platform, took it down, got off again at _Portal
Waiting_, and crossed to the foyer.

She was there, just as she'd been on the screen upstairs, only clearer,
more vivid, something witnessed instead of second hand, something with
dimension to it. She was in a big chair that could have accommodated
two like her. She had her legs tucked under her and her brown eyes that
looked up at Tony's approach weren't any larger than two full moons.

He said, "Are you Mrs. John Haley?"

The girl nodded. "They--they've got Johnny...."

"I know." Tony dropped into a chair opposite the girl. "It's late," he
said softly. "You shouldn't be here this time of night, Mrs. Haley."

The girl thought about that. "You're Mr. Radek, aren't you? In the
Execution Office?"

"Call me Tony, Mrs. Haley."

"All right, Tony. Yes, it's late. I hadn't noticed, but I suppose
you're right."

"You should go home, Mrs. Haley." He stopped, then lied a little.
"They'll let you know. You don't have to worry."

_You don't have to worry. They're bringing the guy up now, little
girl, but you don't have to worry. Old hell-hips is getting a ritual
rose now, little girl, but you don't have to worry._

As if he'd deliberately telepathed the thought, the girl said suddenly:
"Tony, is--is it true about the furious roses? I mean, if a man is
found guilty, do they--?"

"The 'furious' roses, Mrs. Haley?" He smiled. "I see. You mean because
they're so red. Yes, it's true. Ritual roses, we call them, but that's
nothing. Nothing at all. A custom only. A symbol handed down. It means
nothing."

"I know." The girl nodded again. "When we were children, we always
called them the furious roses because they were a furious red. We
always used to say that if an innocent man was executed, the furious
red rose would right away turn white, Tony. To show they'd been wrong
about him."

He shrugged. "Bedtime stories, Mrs. Haley."

"Not--not that it means anything to me, Tony. They'll find Johnny
innocent, of course. All three machines. The final machines."

_Innocent? Oh, sure._

"A man," said Tony with a vague motion of his hands. "What's the
difference what man a woman has? In the morning there's always
another--and another name. What's the difference?" He smiled a small
toy smile with eyes half closed so the girl couldn't look too closely
into them.

But it was all right, she hadn't heard. At least she wasn't balling
those big eyes of hers at him. She was looking down into her folded
hands.

He continued, "There's a war on, Mrs. Haley. It seems there's always a
war on, somehow. And everybody--you, me, the guy down the street who
skins ships for a living--we all have to remember that. And yet some
of us don't. Some of us go off on a tangent and try to sell out our
country and then there's hell to pay. And if we're found guilty, we get
the execution. The Neg-Emote."

The girl's lips began to tremble. She looked up. "Does it hurt, Tony? I
mean...."

"Physically? No, of course not." A corner of his mouth curled. "We're
humane nowadays, hadn't you heard? We just strap a man in a chair and
press a button and down comes a metal hood over him. We press some more
buttons and pull a switch or two, and that's that. No feeling, nothing.
The man's as good as new except he has no emotions any more. No
emotions whatever except personal physical pain, such as he'd need in
case somebody stepped on his toe or jabbed him with a pin. The State
wants us to protect ourselves, you see. It wouldn't want us getting
hurt because we don't feel anything."

He stopped because it was getting harder to continue. "We used to call
it 'stripping,' but that was long ago before the humane boys decided
the term was a little cruel. Now it's just Neg-Emoting. But the same
thing. Just a fancy title."

Her big eyes were suddenly eating into his. "What do they do with them,
Tony?"

He shrugged again. "Send 'em off to Training. Some can be taught this,
some that, but a living death nevertheless. What else can a traitor
expect?"

The girl began to tremble all over. "Not Johnny! They can't do that to
Johnny! He's innocent, Tony--he didn't do anything! Tony, tell them
that! Tell them to let him go...."

He put his teeth together hard. What do you say to a woman who sits
across from you, waiting the long, long wait? What do you say to a
woman like this when you see the terror--and something else--in eyes
like hers?

"You like the guy, Mrs. Haley?" he asked gently. "That's old-fashioned
as hell, you know. We all learn that way back in primaries."

But the woman wasn't listening again, wasn't caring what he'd said.
She began to whisper very softly:

"In the nights I used to be frightened. I used to lie there asleep
and dream of the ships coming down and spraying the house with the
burn-waves. And I could hear the roaring thunder of the jets and
the house would start to shake and I'd try to yell, but I couldn't.
Something inside would be choking me. And just when the burn-waves
would be coming hot through the window and licking at the walls inside
the room, I'd scream myself awake and jump up in bed and the sweat
would be pouring off me."

Tony stared, incredulous, into the big balls of fright that her eyes
had become.

"And then the lights would come on again, and there would be Johnny
lying next to me smiling a little, and his curly hair would be all
tousled from sleep, and he'd say to me, 'Baby, you've been dreaming
again. Don't you know I'm here? Don't you know I'll always be here?
Don't you know that, Baby?' And then it would be all right, and the
roaring jets would be only the dawn shift going out on Security Patrol.
And then I could go back to sleep again."

She stopped. _Portal Waiting_ had become a gray ghost of a thing with
nothing living in it, only the clouds of memory like smoke veils
swirling, drifting here and there, soon gone.

And then: "They'll let him go, Tony. He's innocent, you know. They have
to let him go."

He didn't look at her. He got up from his chair, put his hands rigidly
at his sides. Then he did look, just once, and very hard.

"Get out of here!" he growled.

"No, Tony."

He took a deep breath, turned, went across the foyer to the levelators.
As he passed under the huge Master Screen, her voice came again, but
quite thin:

"You'll let me know, Tony? You'll let me know as soon as you get word?"

He didn't answer, didn't look back, didn't do anything except
keep going to the levelators. He went upstairs, found the door of
Executions, opened it, went through, let it slam shut.

       *       *       *       *       *

Things started to happen. The Master Clock over on the black desk made
a quiet blipping sound and the Emote Neutral lights went out. At once
the office was flooded with Amber Official, the working lights. Then
the Master Screen glowed and a narrow-faced man with washed-away eyes
looked out at him.

"Condemned is waiting, _Mr._ Radek," the narrow-faced man said acidly.
"Cell Two is getting dusty waiting for you, _Mr._ Radek. Very dusty."

Tony looked up. His heart wasn't in it, but he said it anyhow: "Go
chase your blonde some more, hell-hips."

He went over to the desk, banged the Supplies and Control button, held
it down. Master Screen darkened. He looked at the small square of white
paper on the black desk top.

A bill of divorcement. Like that. So in the morning the kid downstairs
could go out and get herself another mate and then she could go back to
bed again and dream some more about the roaring jets and the burn-waves.

He reached up and wiped at his forehead. She didn't have to see it
happen. Nothing in the Constitution--old or new--stated she had to see
it happen. He looked down at the matswitch that controlled the visi-lok
on the Master Screen. He clamped his teeth together and his hand went
out and flipped the switch. The office went dead.

Maybe nobody'd notice. Maybe he'd have time to slip into Cell Two and
get it over with before anybody noticed. He started across the room on
fast, silent feet.

"_Radek!_" the alternate speaker over in the corner blasted out. He
froze solid. "Radek, don't move! Stand where you are!"

Don't move? He couldn't have moved if he'd had jets on. And then the
hard voice went on again: "Central Command to Supplies and Control. Use
Emergency visi-relay. Unlock the Master Screen! This is Command 419,
Regulation Four. Signed, Countersigned."

Almost at once the Master Screen flickered into life and a hard,
severe-looking face appeared there. "Radek, turn around! Face the
screen!"

"Yes, sir." Tony turned.

"Second violation, Radek. Why?"

Tony forced a blank face. He lifted his shoulders, said: "I was over
here on my way to Cell Two for the Execution. How could I--"

"That will be all, Radek! Clear your desk. Prepare for judgment on
final machines."

Tony swallowed. He didn't move because he couldn't move.

"Well, Radek?"

He fought his face clean, kept his hands rigid at his sides. Sweat was
rolling down his back, but that was all right; Central Command couldn't
be expected to see sweat roll down a man's back under his clothing,
though a lot of people thought so.

"A suggestion, sir," he said at last.

"What?" Hard eyes bored into his own.

He let a little anxious look creep over his face. Not a guilty
look--he hoped--but the kind of anxious look a worried but innocent man
might have in a spot like this.

He said quickly: "About that visi-lok. I suggest it might have gone
into lock by itself. You see, it's one of the old-fashioned kind, the
type they used to have that worked with solenoids. We've had trouble
with them before."

That brought a little silence. The hard eyes in the screen said at
last: "Central Command to Supplies and Control. Is the visi-lok in
Executions controlled by a solenoid? Was it never changed to relay?"

Tony gulped. He looked into the Master Screen, but he remained frozen
to the floor, hardly breathing. And then a very thin voice answered
nervously:

"I--I believe that's correct, sir. I believe Executions does have the
old-fashioned solenoid. It seems there hasn't been time to change it.
I've been intending to...."

The voice was cut off. The hard eyes came back to Tony. "Decision!" the
hard voice said.

"Yes, sir?"

"Exonerated, Radek! Carry on with Execution in Cell Two." The screen
went blank.

Tony shuddered. A close one. A damned close one. That was the war for
you. Even a man's breaths are counted. He went on shaky feet over to
the cooler, reached in, got out a ritual rose, left the office end
shuffled down the hall to Cell Two.

John Edward Haley. The condemned. A thin man, Tony thought. Well, sure,
there aren't many fat men any more. Not in ordinary circumstances, that
is.

The man was sitting tensely in the chair. There was no one else in the
cell, which was as it should be, of course. Witnesses, yes--the Master
Screen up on the wall--but not here, not visible.

Tony went across the Cell. "John Edward Haley," he said.

The man moved a nervous tongue over dry lips.

"John Edward Haley, you have been sentenced for Execution. Now hear
these final words of the State as directed by Presidential order from
Responsibility Official in the City of Greater New Denver, this night."

He took two small steps toward the man in the chair. He held out the
red rose, put it in the hand of the other. Then he stepped back two
steps until his toes were just touching a small plaque built into the
floor. He looked down, read from the plaque:

"The giving of this rose. A symbol for the red of the blood of your
brothers that you have let by treason and/or treachery. A symbol that
as the rose is red, so are the unclean acts of your own hand, of your
own mind. The State has so spoken."

He looked up. A nice way to kiss a guy off. Might as well tell him he
bit his brother's finger, too, when he was a kid.

"Have you anything to say?" he asked.

The man's nervous tongue worked again. He said quickly:

"Yeah. Look, guy, just one thing. Just one favor. I don't give a damn
what happens to me. Sure, I'm guilty. So you caught me, and so I take
it. So what? A guy expects that. But the wife...."

Tony's teeth came together hard.

"... But the wife, see? She's down in _Portal Waiting_. Been there for
three nights now. I don't want her to witness this. I don't want her
to look into that Master Screen down there and see it. That's all I'm
asking, guy, and it ain't much. Just a flick of a switch is all I'm
asking. It ain't much. It ain't, is it?"

_It ain't, hey? By God!_

"When the hood comes down, she'll see it. She's bound to," the thin
man went on fast. "She'll see the flash in the Screen and she'll know
it's me, and she's never done anything to deserve that. That's all I'm
asking, guy. That's all I'm asking."

The silence in the cell was a thick thing. Tony could feel the sweat
rolling down his back again. But a different kind of a sweat now--not
a sweat for himself, a sweat for somebody else. Just one finger touch
on that visi-lok matswitch would do it. Just one finger, and the small
woman downstairs in _Portal Waiting_ wouldn't know, would have one more
instant of waiting, of hoping against hope. Of suspense. Of breathing
in the air we all breathe in, of being alive, sentient; and knowing
that her man, the thin fellow with the tousled, curly hair, was still
sentient, too.

"Well, guy?"

Tony wet his lips. "Sorry, Haley. Petition refused." The hood came
down. The Master Screen up on the wall blazed into life.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tony sat at his black desk with his hands folded, fingers laced. That's
Executions for you. And this is war. There's a war on. Don't forget
that. He looked down at his hands, sighed. Then he reached out and
touched the Supplies and Control button.

"Hell-hips!" he growled.

He looked at the screen. It wasn't hell-hips. It was a blonde. Not
a young blonde, a scarecrow blonde. An old wretched piece of living
mechanism like himself.

"Where's Clacker?" he asked.

"Mr. Clacker is no longer with us, Mr. Radek."

"Huh? What happened to him?"

"Mr. Clacker has been taken to the three Final Machines for trial and
judgment. I am now taking over here. My name is Hortense. G. Welker
Hortense."

Tony looked at the blonde. Crude, undisguised lights were coming from
the woman's eyes. Promotion-happy.

He said at last: "Sorry as hell about that. The solenoid thing, I
suppose. I didn't mean to get the guy in trouble. I sure didn't mean
that."

"He'd been ordered to change it. It was no one's fault but his own. You
were only doing your duty, I'm sure. And duty comes above everything."

"Yeah. Yeah, sure. I know." He sighed once more. "Get me an airbrush
and a bottle of white paint."

"What?"

"I want an airbrush and a bottle of white paint. I want to paint my
nice little ritual roses. I don't like red any more. I want all white
ones."

"Mr. Radek...?"

Tony glared. "Do I get that paint or don't I? Don't just stand there!"
His fist banged down on Supplies and Control button. The Master Screen
went blank, and then flashed into motion again fast. The blonde again.
Nasty now. A chip off the old block. Another hell-hips, but this time
with skirts.

"Request not granted! This is entirely against regulations, Mr. Radek!
Specifically, against ordinance 1991, of the Code of...."

"Oh, can it," he growled wearily. "For God's sake, don't give me any
more of that."

The blonde stiffened. "Well! After all, I'm only doing my duty, Mr.
Radek. As head of Supplies and Control, I have certain well-defined and
inflexible...."

Tony blacked her out. He held her blacked out till he was sure she
wouldn't come on again. Duty.

The Master Clock made a quiet blipping noise. Amber Official lights
dimmed and Emote Neutral came on. Long, probing shadow fingers snaked
here and there across the floor, and a stillness that should have been
restful descended eventually on the place.

"_Radek!_"

The hard eyes. The hard voice. Tony looked into the screen. "Yes, sir?"

"Radek, that woman is still downstairs in _Portal Waiting_! We can't
have her hanging around all night. Why hasn't she been given her bill
of divorcement and sent home? My God, man, where's your feelings? She's
at least entitled to that."

"Right away, sir. I was just going."

He picked up the square of white paper. He pushed back his chair, got
to his feet, went across the office taking those peculiar, quiet little
steps of his.

Yes, sir. Just going, sir. On my way, sir. Because, sir, as you've
pointed out so clearly, sir, she's at least entitled to that.




