



"Is it time?" Jarth Rolan asked anxiously. Pilot Lan Barda pushed him
gently back into a seat. "No, but very soon. And be calm--you're
jumpier than a human."

"But we've waited so long--yes, a long time. And I _am_ anxious to get
home."

Lan peered calmly out of his vehicle. They were hovering in Earth's
upper atmosphere, at the permitted limit.

"Be patient. These people have almost reached the critical point.
We'll get the signal before long."

Jarth Rolan popped out of his chair and danced about in nervous
excitement.

"Won't it be dangerous? For us, I mean. Going down into that
radioactive atmosphere. And how about them--will any of them live?
Suppose we wait too long?"

Lan Barda laughed. He was a husky humanoid, pinkish of skin and
completely hairless, like all galactics. He slapped Jarth Rolan's
back.

"We have experts watching. These humans have used four cobalt bombs,
and plenty of smaller stuff. The fallout is close to the danger point.
Our observers will know just when we can move in because--" he winked
and his voice dropped to a conspiratorial whisper--"they're using
automatically controlled instruments."

"Oh, my!" Jarth Rolan clapped his hands to his cheeks. "But those are
robots--and the use of robots is against religion."

"I know, Jarth. But we won't be using them much longer, will we?" He
poked a playful finger into Jarth's ribs. "We'll have slaves--and
it'll be completely ethical."

Jarth Rolan winced. "Must you use that word 'slaves,' Lan? It sounds
so--" He waved his hands.

Lan laughed again. "Be honest with yourself, Jarth. You're out to make
a few _dopolins_ for yourself as a slave raider."

"An entrepreneur," said Jarth. "In personal services."

Lan Barda became serious. "There's the signal--it's time to go down.
Let's go, Jarth, before somebody else gets them all."
