
To this I willingly agreed, and an hour later I was sitting opposite
Mr. Havering in a first-class carriage on the Midland Railway,
speeding rapidly away from London.

“To begin with, Captain Hastings, you must understand that Hunter’s
Lodge, where we are going, and where the tragedy took place, is only a
small shooting-box in the heart of the Derbyshire moors. Our real home
is near Newmarket, and we usually rent a flat in town for the season.
Hunter’s Lodge is looked after by a housekeeper who is quite capable
of doing all we need when we run down for an occasional week-end. Of
course, during the shooting season, we take down some of our own
servants from Newmarket.

“My uncle, Mr. Harrington Pace (as you may know, my mother was a Miss
Pace of New York), has for the last three years made his home with us.
He never got on well with my father, or my elder brother, and I
suspect that my being somewhat of a prodigal son myself rather
increased than diminished his affection toward me. Of course, I am a
poor man, and my uncle was a rich one—in other words, he paid the
piper! But though exacting in many ways, he was not really hard to get
on with, and we all three lived very harmoniously together.

“Two days ago my uncle, rather wearied with some recent gayeties of
ours in town, suggested that we should run down to Derbyshire for a
day or two. My wife telegraphed to Mrs. Middleton, the housekeeper,
and we went down that same afternoon. Yesterday evening I was forced
to return to town, but my wife and my uncle remained on. This morning
I received this telegram.”

He handed it over to me, and I read:

    Come at once. Uncle Harrington murdered last night. Bring good
    detective if you can, but do come.
                                                              Zoe.

“Then as yet you know no details?”

“No, I suppose it will be in the evening papers. Without doubt the
police are in charge.”
