
Wally Bupp was right. I hadn't found it practical. All of a
sudden I saw that it really didn't matter whether I were a psi or
not. The important question had always been whether Lefty and the
others were psis. If so, they might be on the level about my psi
powers--which meant I was right back being a snake again. And if
they weren't, it was a simple case of blackmail, which at least
let me rejoin the human race. On that basis, I was in tough
shape. Occam's razor has no answer for hallucinations. Either
you've had them or you hadn't. I had. Nobody would change my mind
on that score. That made Snead, and presumably Lefty, a psi. And
me, too.

But--what if they were mistaken? Shari's tests looked conclusive
to me. I saw that as the only way out. I had to insist on a test
in their presence. And that meant I had to get in touch with
Wally Bupp.

My kibitzer came stalking out of the building, gangling and
gawky. "Didn't mean to spoil your luck, neighbor," he said.

"Don't give it a second thought, Snead," I said.

"Call me Mortimer," he said. "You mind a word of advice,
neighbor?" he asked, bobbing his head around and grinning in a
self-conscious way. "Next time, bet that fourteen. Highest card
in the deck. Beats all the others!"

"You lousy snake!" I gasped. I'd learned better than to take a
poke at him. Lefty had taught me my lesson on that one. Snead
might turn out to be a TK as well as a hallucinator, and I wanted
no more heart attacks.

He handed me a card. "There'll be somebody at this number all
night, neighbor. Gamblers Anonymous."

He faded off down the dark street. The card merely said:

"Manhattan Chapter NO 5-5600"
