
Shari must have had a swell time at dinner with some guy who
didn't gamble, because she didn't come home until nearly
midnight. I know because I dialed her apartment every ten minutes
until I got her face on the screen.

She was still dressed for dinner and had a sort of tiara over her
thick tresses. "What is it?" she said.

"I'm not a psi?" I demanded.

"No!" she said. "Hasn't this gone--?"

"Well, then, am I crazy?" I cut in on her.

Her lips compressed. "It's a lot more likely," she decided.
"Why?"

"Either I'm nuts," I told her. "Or those characters really are
psis." She was reaching up to cut the image when I caught her
interest. "Is there such a thing as a psi who can induce
hallucinations?" I demanded.

"No." Flatly.

"They've got me sold that they can do it," I said. "What does
Occam's razor say about that?"

"You idiot!" she exploded. "They don't believe you are a PC any
more than I do!" She was sure sensitive about my having any
precognition!

"O.K.," I said. "Then _you_ make them eat it. Aren't you the one
who knows all about exposing charlatans?"

That was the right button. "Certainly," Shari said.

"I'll pick you up in ten minutes," I said.

"Now? Midnight?"

"This is the pay-off," I said, and cut the image. I dialed the
number Snead had given me.

"Manhattan Chapter," the Operator cartoon said.

"This is George Robertson," I said. "Mortimer Snead told me
there'd be somebody there to talk to me. Maybe Lefty."

"Snead?" the cartoon said, frowning. "No one here by that--Oh!
Wait a moment. Dr. Walter Bupp will talk to you," the cartoon
said, and Wally's face appeared on the screen.

"It wasn't practical," I admitted.

"Six days early," he observed.

"Nuts," I said. "Look, you've got me convinced you are a psi.
That Snead puts on a terrific show."

"Snead?" he frowned. "Oh!" He laughed. "Yeah," he agreed
condescendingly. "He's red hot, every now and then."

"But you haven't sold me that _I'm_ a PC," I growled. "I've been
tested. I'm not. Now I want you to get off my back. You and the
rest of them! Lay off!"

He shook his head. "The Lodge acts unilaterally on this," he said
soberly. "You've got psi powers. You'll accept our direction in
their use. Or else, Tex."

"All I ask is a fair test," I said desperately. "Under laboratory
conditions."

He gave me an address. "Come any time," he said.

"That's me walking in," I told him.
