
I had a heck of a time getting Shari on the 'phone. An hour
before lunch she caved in and accepted my call.

She looked pale and shaken, even in the black and white of the
screen. "Please," she said. "I've had all I can stand. You stayed
there all night, didn't you?"

"I'm not a PC, Shari," I said.

Nothing else would have caught her ear.

"Not?"

"Proved it before I left," I said. "I can prove it to you, too."

"Ridiculous. You can't prove a negative."

"Well, in a manner of speaking. What I can do is show you how the
card trick was worked."

I had her hooked. "You mean it? It really _was_ a trick after
all?" she said, slumping.

"It sure wasn't PC," I said. "Let me show you."

"At the lab," Shari said. "I'll be there in ten minutes."

A couple graduate students were there, fooling around with Rhine
cards when we arrived, and Shari chased them out without
ceremony. She locked the door behind them. We were to have
privacy. She didn't bother with her lab coat this time.

"Show me," she insisted.

"The apparatus, Shari," I grinned. She gave me a deck of cards,
and pulled out the two of hearts and two of spades.

"We'll do it face-up," I said. "So you can see how it's done!"

I laid the two cards side by side on her blotter, face up. "Now
put a finger on each one." I directed. "And watch them like a
hawk. What card is under your right forefinger?"

"Heart," Shari said.

"Wrong," I told her. "Spade."

They could have heard that shriek clear to Keokuk. Good thing we
were in a sound-proof laboratory.

I got her calmed down after a while. "It didn't happen!" she
insisted, clutching at her temples.

"If you won't holler," I said. "I'll do it again. Remember, it's
just a phenomenon, like osmosis."

"It is _not_!" she gasped.

But I did it for her. Ten times in a row. The cards changed under
her fingers without moving.

"So it's not PC," I said.

"Oh, Tex, but what _is_ it?"

"You agree it's real?"

Shari nodded. "It's real. You can do it, whatever it is. What
_is_ it?"

"TK," I told her. "Telekinesis."

"Nonsense," she said. "Are you trying to make me believe I
wouldn't have felt the cards move if you'd snapped them out from
under my fingers? I was pressing hard on them every time."

"I didn't move the cards," I explained.

"But you said it was telekinesis!"

"Sure. I just moved the molecules of pigment in the printing ink
and reassembled them in the opposite cards. You didn't expect to
feel molecular movement, did you?"

"No. Then it really happened?" I nodded. "What an incredible
power!" she said. A glow of satisfaction spread over me. "Can you
really test this molecular hypothesis?" she asked.
