
Spring had been late before. As the _Times_ pointed out, there had
been snow as late as mid-May in 1569 and at the end of April in 1782,
yet the chronicles recorded bumper crops for both years. Agricultural
experts advised closer pruning of fruit trees to speed budding, and an
American firm of Artificial Fertilizer Manufacturers brought out a new
product called 'Shoot-boost'. But the correspondence columns of the
newspapers carried letters pointing out that, while spring might have
been late before, this time the weather was entirely spring-like, yet
still there was no sign of shoot, blossom or bud. Excessive radiation
resulting from nuclear tests was blamed.

It was mid-May before the people and their governments became seriously
alarmed. Trees still stood bare as in the depth of winter, lawns bore
the bruising of last season's mowing but no new growth, flower beds
showed the unbroken rills of after-seed raking. Farmers walked their
fields day after day and crouched down to silhouette the furrows
against the sky, the better to see the green whiskers when they
sprouted. They prodded their heifers and ewes and went down to the
villages to consult the vet. Their wives searched the hen-houses and
put down extra grain and bricks of chalk.

The Pope's call to world-wide prayer and the British Government's
announcement of the introduction of rationing fell on the same day.
In most countries, the Pope's call found little response because the
people were too busy lining up at food stores trying to lay in stocks.
There were bread riots in Teheran.
