
The Russian soldier stumbled into their laager one evening just as they
were getting ready for sleep. He dropped his rifle in his surprise
and then held his hands up high because the Frenchman was groping for
his bayonet. They stood for a while looking at each other until the
Frenchman put his weapon down and the Russian's arms fell slowly to
his sides. He watched them for a few minutes, then he saw a fishtail
lying on the ground and picked it up and began to gnaw it. The Tommy
glanced at his companions and crawled to the hole in the rocks behind
them where they kept their supplies and gave the Russian a whole fish.
The Russian grinned and took it, and while he was eating it he sat down
and gradually wriggled his way closer to them. They showed him another
fish and he said 'da' and they gave it to him. "First time I knew a
flipping Ivan could say yes too," the Tommy said.

To their amazement, the stranger spoke to the Russian with the same
ease with which he spoke English and French.

The Russian spent the night with them, and in the morning, after more
fish, he wandered off. He came back dragging mounds of branches with
which he built a shelter for the wounded men under one tree, and
another one for the stranger. He grinned all over his broad face,
pointed to the fish, to them, to himself and to the shelters. Then he
shook hands all round.

That afternoon a Russian fighting patrol passed close by. The officer
heard their voices, crept up behind them and threw a hand grenade among
them. The stranger threw himself on top of it just as it went off. The
Englishman shot the officer through the head before the dust and smoke
had cleared, and the remainder of the patrol withdrew.
