
So a couple of days skidded by, as days have a habit of doing. About
the middle of the second day, Hanson came up to my turret looking as
confused as a stork at the Old Maids' Home. He said, "Sparks, I been
hearin' funny things--"

"Your digestion?" I asked. "Or have you been dosing your asthma with
that 90-proof cough-medicine again? That'll make you hear things and
_see_ 'em too--"

"That's enough," interrupted the Old Man coldly, "of them kind o'
comments! What I been hearin' is bad. They's a rumor floatin' around
that we're on a dead trajectory for Sol due to Major Gilchrist's course
plottin'."

"Oh, that?" I said. "Forget it, skipper. Mr. Biggs knows all about it.
He's got ideas."

"Well," said the skipper, relieved, "in that case, I guess everything's
O.Q." And he waddled happily away. Which gives you some idea who's the
real Master Mind on the _Saturn_.

That very same night, Diane Biggs stopped me outside the Officers' Mess.

"Sparks, have you seen Lancelot anywhere? I haven't laid eyes on him
all day, and I'm worried."

"You ought to know better than to fret wrinkles into your pretty brow
over that one-man quiz program," I told her. "He's O.Q. Right now he's
engaged in some mysterious project of his own devising. When last seen
he was swiping generator supplies from the storeroom. Don't ask me why,
because maybe I know the right answer, and I don't want to have to
tell."

"He--he's not going to get in any trouble, is he?"

"Well, not exactly," I chuckled. "Though things _may_ be a trifle
hot for a while." For I had seen the stuff Biggs had snaggled from
the supply room, and I had also watched him sneaking out through the
airlock to the _Saturn's_ hull. I had a pretty fair idea what was going
to happen, but I figured it was his pigeon, and I didn't want to upset
the Bostons.

So that was all till the next day. But the next day everything happened
at once.
