
In the dim narrow sleeping cube, lit by a single ancient acho-lyte
bulb, two men lay breathing feebly on the littered floor. “They’ll be
out for at least forty-eight hours,” bragged Red. “I gave ’em both
triple shots of parasthetic.”

“So wha--” began Ward; then, as he looked closer, he cried, “Good Lord!
It’s Professor Limerick!”

Red laughed in a thin, mirthless way that sent a little tremor up
Ward’s spine. “That’s right, Doc. Professor Limerick and his laboratory
assistant. Educated morons who skip blithely down the perpetually dim
halls of learning. They’re scheduled to leave on the _Sol_, blasting
for Marsport at 2400. You know what for?”

“No,” whispered Ward faintly. “What for?”

“To study the indigenous spores of the canal peculiar to the eastern
polar banks of--and I don’t know what else. Fiddlers while Rome burns.
Who gives a damn about indigenous spores when the Mo-Sanshon is--?”

“You seem rather vehement, Red, for a person who only pretends to
believe in the Mo-Sanshon, just for a thrill.”

Red relaxed, his obvious manic nervous system soothed slightly by the
paraette smoke he inhaled in great drags. “Anyway, Doc, there’s our
passports and number one priorities to Mars. We’ve got two hours to get
your equipment aboard. It’s here in the city, ain’t it?”

Ward nodded. “In a locked vault. But I didn’t think anyone else knew
about it but myself. If the Mo-Sanshon had--”

Red interrupted, “Wait here a minute, Doc,” and disappeared into the
reeking alleyway. He was back almost at once with a quick-moving,
sprightly little man with a pink face and long white hair. He carried a
plastic oblong box in one hand.

“This is Alsar Alingmore,” said Red. “People’s Artist of the
Inner-Planet Folk Theatre Circuits. A philosopher. We sometimes talk
of the good old days as they are referred to by malcontents. This is
professor Jonathan Ward, saviour of the Solar System. Maybe.”

Alingmore bowed low. “Very fortunate to meet you, Doctor.”
