
Almost at the exact moment that Carol opened the door into Stark's
office, the yellow visi-screen of the vocal box upon Stark's desk
flashed on brilliantly and the Chief's booming voice filled the office.
The light from the screen picked up the highlights on the furniture and
gave a sallow, greenish cast to Stark's features. Carol stepped back
into the doorway to stay out of range of the two-way unit.

"Stark!" The automatic tuner on the box corrected to bring the Chief's
image in wire-sharp focus.

"Yes, sir?"

"About the dinner tonight. Just checking to make sure you're planning to
be there. We want a full turnout. An inspection team has come up from
Earth and we have two visiting dignitaries from Venus."

Stark nodded and waited for the Chief to say something else, but the
visi-screen blanked out.

Carol said, "That was Dad, wasn't it?"

Stark felt very depressed suddenly. "Haven't you told him yet?"

"No. He's been tied up with those inspectors all afternoon. And you know
how Dad is, Johnny. There's a right and a wrong time to tell him things.
Right now, he's only interested in hearing about Earth."

"But we're supposed to announce our engagement tonight at the dinner."
He shook his head. "We can't go on forever with just a few stolen
moments here and there, eating an occasional lunch or third meal
together in little out-of-the-way places."

Carol laughed, the youthful swell of her breasts against the soft,
spun-glass material of her blouse. "Don't worry so, Johnny! I'm a big
girl now. This is my eighteenth birthday. Dad's bark is much worse than
his bite. I'll tell him about us on the way home."

She moved closer to him, until he could feel the warmth of her body. He
could see the warm, damp indentation where her breathing globe had
rested against her shoulders and chest.

She asked teasingly, "What did you get me for my birthday, Johnny?
Something real nice?"

"What did you want?" Johnny asked her gently.
