
They woke him in the pre-dawn twilight and another group of Agvars took
over. These--there were only three--looked older than the familiar
villagers. And they'd smeared their faces with bands of red and yellow
mud. He wondered....

He stopped wondering when they passed a pile of bones at the base of the
spire. Among the grisly relics were skulls--brow-ridged, pointed,
unmistakably Agvar. Sacrifices!

He was to be killed, then, to propitiate his own rescuers. His three
guides--or guards--must be witch-doctors! He let them drag him along
while he thought about it.

They'd give him no breakfast, not even water. If they'd eaten
themselves, it was while he still slept. The scraps, if any, hadn't been
flung in his face, and there'd been no smooth post to lick the dew from.

Hunger and thirst were nothing new, but neither was the resulting
lethargy. Realizing his danger, Chet could only hang back.

Today though that was an old stall; the witch-doctors seemed to expect
it. They broke branches from the trees and beat him till he bled. And
when the climb up the rocks began, they put one of their number behind
him to push, set the other two in front to pull, and tried by main
strength to haul him up the five hundred foot rock-face.

Hazily, not hastily, Chet tried to think of a way out. His starved brain
could come up with nothing. That, he finally decided, was only natural;
it was not thinking that was needed, but action.

Still, he wasn't precipitate. Caution reinforced his habitual lassitude
while trying to dispell it. Half a dozen times he tensed for combat,
only to relax hopelessly. But finally he found a place--and the will--to
make a stand.

He passed up a wide shelf, and let them tug him along a narrow ledge
without much objection. He chose a near-vertical pitch about a hundred
feet from the bottom--a mere crack that slanted upward to the right,
offering the shallowest of hand- and foot-holds.

He could only hope that he wasn't in sight from the trail--or else that
the villagers had left. He couldn't see through the treetops to make
sure. But he hadn't the strength to worry.

He froze to the rock, pulling as if in fright. The two witch-doctors in
single file above him jerked on the chains they held. But they needed a
hand apiece to hold on with, and couldn't lift him.

The one below, standing on a six-inch ledge, tried to push. When that
didn't work, he broke off a chunk of rock and beat Chet's left foot with
it.

Spurred by the sudden pain, Chet kicked the witch-doctor in the face.
The Agvar fell, screaming--until he crashed through the treetops and was
still.
