
He held his ear to it, listening for any sound of a leak. It was not
leaking yet but it could commence doing so at any time. He looked out
the windows at the illimitable void that was waiting to absorb his
pitiful little supply of air and he thought of the days he had hauled
and jerked at the springs with all his strength, not realizing the
damage he was doing.

There was a sick feeling in his stomach for the rest of the day and he
returned again and again to examine the hairline around the hook.

The next day he discovered an even more serious threat: the thin skin of
the bubble had been spot-welded to the outside reinforcing girders.

Such welding often created hard, brittle spots that would soon
crystallize from continued movement--and there was a slight temperature
difference in the bubble between his working and sleeping hours that
would daily produce a contraction and expansion of the skin. Especially
when he used the little cooking burner.

He quit using the burner for any purpose and began a daily inspection of
every square inch of the bubble's walls, marking with white chalk all
the welding spots that appeared to be definitely weakened. Each day he
found more to mark and soon the little white circles were scattered
across the walls wherever he looked.

When he was not working at examining the walls he could feel the windows
watching him, like staring eyes. Out of self defense he would have to go
to them and stare back at the emptiness.

Space was alien; coldly, deadly, alien. He was a tiny spark of life in a
hostile sea of Nothing and there was no one to help him. The Nothing
outside was waiting day and night for the most infinitesimal leak or
crack in the walls; the Nothing that had been waiting out there since
time without beginning and would wait for time without end.

Sometimes he would touch his finger to the wall and think, _Death is out
there, only one-sixteenth of an inch away_. His first fears became a
black and terrible conviction: the bubble could not continue to resist
the attack for long. It had already lasted longer than it should have.
Two million pounds of pressure wanted out and all the sucking Nothing of
intergalactic space wanted in. And only a thin skin of metal, rotten
with brittle welding spots, stood between them.

It wanted in--the Nothing wanted in. He knew, then, that Horne and
Silverman had not been insane. It wanted in and someday it would get in.
When it did it would explode him and jerk out his guts and lungs. Not
until that happened, not until the Nothing filled the bubble and
enclosed his hideous, turned-inside-out body would it ever be content ...
