
Professor Lillick came in, visibly perturbed. Lillick was a somewhat
erratic individual (for a professor, at least) and he was often
perturbed. Once he became excited about the possibilities of the campus
shrubbery being stunted and discolored by the actions of certain dogs
living on campus. He was not a philosophy professor, of course, but a
member of the political science group.

"Carlson," he asked nervously, "have you heard about it yet?"

"I have no idea," I returned good-naturedly. "Heard about what?"

He looked behind him as if he thought he might be followed. Then
he whirled around, his sharp-featured face alight with feeling.
"Carlson--the Wistick dufels the Moraddy!" And he stared at me
intently, his gimlet eyes almost blazing.

I stared back at him blankly.

"You haven't heard!" he exclaimed. "I thought surely you would know
about it. You're always talking about freedom to apply thought for the
good of humanity. Well, we're finally going to do something about it.
You'll see. Keep your ears open, Carlson." Then he turned and started
out of the room. He paused at the threshold and fixed me again with
his ferretlike eyes. "The Wistick dufels the Moraddy!" he said, and
vanished through the door.

And that was my first unheeded omen of what was to come. I paid little
attention to it. Lillick wasn't the sort of man who inspired attention.
As a matter of fact, I considered reporting him to the head of his
department as being on the verge of a nervous breakdown. But I didn't.
In those days, nervous breakdowns were a common occurrence around
college campuses. The educational profession was a very hazardous
occupation. One Southern university, for example, reported five faculty
suicides during spring quarter.
