
He uncapped his glass, took a sip of rhial, snicked the cover back, and
let the heady stuff evaporate in his mouth. He breathed in sharply in
the approved manner, but he didn't even shudder. He just nodded slowly,
once.

That appeared to pass the conversational ball back to me. "I might
have a cargo for you, if you can handle it," I said. "I hear these
Delta class ships can manage almost anything, but this is a rough one.
The _Annabelle_ is the only ship in the area built to take my stuff,
and she's grounded with transposer troubles."

He cocked one sandy eyebrow at me. I interpreted this to be a request
for the nature of my cargo, so I told him, and let him ponder about it
for a while.

"Gasha root," he said at last, and nodded once. "I can handle it.
That'll be easy, for _Delta Crucis_. Like you said, she can handle
anything. Her last cargo was a live elephant."

We completed our deal without much trouble. He drove a hard bargain,
but a fair one, and he had plenty of self-confidence. He signed a
contingent-on-satisfactory-delivery contract, and that's unusual for a
ship that's handling Gasha. Hadn't thought I'd be so lucky. Gasha is
tricky stuff.

We went over to the Government office to complete the deal--customs
arrangements, notarizations, posting bonds and so forth--but we finally
signed the contract, all legal and binding. His name turned out to be
Bart Hannah.

Then, by unspoken consent, we went back to the bar.

It was after noon, by that time, so I had a Scotch, and then I had
another. I was so relieved to have found a ship for my cargo that I
didn't even think about lunch.
