
[7] See Cairns, as above, page 64. The influence of the Spectator form
in France appears strikingly in _L’Hermite de la Chaussée d’Antin_, ou
observations sur les mœurs et les usages français au commencement du
xix^{me} siècle, par M. de Jouy, Paris (collective volumes), 1813.

[8] Cross, _Development of the English Novel_, pages 24, 25.

[9] For Irving’s own view of his tales, see a quotation from his
letters at page xix of Professor Brander Matthews’s edition of the
_Tales of a Traveller_.

[10] “A rivulet of story meandering through a broad meadow of
episode--a book of episodes with occasional digressions into the plot.”
Kennedy’s preface to _Swallow Barn_.

[11] This is the character of the tales of Mme. de Genlis, of which a
volume was published in New York, 1825: _New Moral Tales, selected and
translated from the French of Mme. de Genlis, by an American_.

[12] Nodier adopts the same setting for the same purpose (cf. _Les
Quatre Talismans_, 1838); but the habit is at least as old as Voltaire.

[13] So Godfrey Wallace’s _Esmeralda_, Atlantic Souvenir for 1829.

[14] Miss Sedgwick’s _Chivalric Sailor_ (1835) is essentially like our
current historical romances. A typical instance is Dana’s _Paul Felton_
(1822).

[15] This tendency was confirmed, of course, by the predominance of
Scott.

[16] Brander Matthews, _The Philosophy of the Short-Story_, page 15.

[17] _Poetics_, chapter x.

[18] Poe’s review of Hawthorne’s tales (1842) begins by remarking that
they are not all tales (Stedman and Woodberry edition of Poe, vol. vii,
page 28).

[19] Poe’s tales were translated into French, German, Italian, and
Spanish. He was reviewed in the _Revue des Deux Mondes_, Oct. 15, 1846
(new series, vol. xvi, page 341).

[20] See Aristotle’s _Poetics_, chapters vii and viii. The “classical”
French drama deduced from Aristotle’s general principle of unity of
action a strict system of practice. Of Poe’s adherence to this system a
good instance is _The Cask of Amontillado_.

[21] In a review of Mrs. Sigourney, Southern Literary Messenger, volume
ii, page 113 (January, 1836); quoted in Woodberry’s Life of Poe, page