
[22] In a review of Hawthorne, Graham’s Magazine, May, 1842; Stedman
and Woodberry’s edition of Poe, volume vii, page 30; quoted in the
appendix to Brander Matthews’s _Philosophy of the Short-Story_.

[23] A collection ascribed to Antonius Diogenes, compiled by Aristides
of Miletus, was translated into Latin by Cornelius Sisenna (119–67
B.C.). The translation is lost.

[24] The _Cena_ of Petronius has more consistency, is in form more like
the longer tales of antiquity.

[25] The object of Lucian is always satire. This, not any purely
narrative end, determines his method. But it is worth observing that
_The Ass_ is picaresque. For the rest, no single adventure of the
string is more than anecdote.

[26] The Greek title is ποιμενικά.

[27] _E. g._, the fifteenth idyl of Theocritus, and the opening of the
seventh oration of Dio Chrysostom. The latter, though brought in as
anecdote, has extraordinary ingenuity and finish of form.

[28] See the introduction by Joseph Jacobs to _Old French Romances done
into English by William Morris_.

[29] This, perhaps, is typically the _novella_; but Boccaccio
will not fix the term: “intendo di raccontare cento _novelle, o
favole o parabole o istorie, che dire le vogliamo_ ... nelle quali
_novelle_....”--_Preface to Decameron._

[30] For reference in more detailed study of mediæval forms, this
tentative classification of the _Decameron_ may be tabulated as
follows:--

  _anecdote_                                                         55

      (a) _simple anecdote_                                       34
          I, all but nov. 4; III, nov. 4; V, nov. 4; VI, entire;
            VIII, all but nov. 7 & 8; IX, nov. 1 & 7–10.

      (b) _anecdote more artistically elaborated_                 21
          III, nov. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6; V, nov. 10; VII, entire;
            VIII, nov. 7; IX, nov. 2–5.

  _scenario or summary romance_                                      40
          II, nov. 3–10; III, nov. 7–10; IV, entire; V, all
            but nov. 4 & 10; X, entire.

  _approaching short story_                                           3
          I, nov. 4; II, nov. 1; VIII, nov. 8.

  _short story_                                                       2
          II, nov. 2; IX, nov. 6.                                  ----
                                                                    100


[31] E. Gilbert, _Le roman en France pendant le xix^e siècle_, page 65;
A. France, _La vie littéraire_, _I^{re} série_, page 47.

[32] Brander Matthews, _The Philosophy of the Short-Story_, page 65.

[33] _Colomba_ has one hundred and fifty pages.

[34] See an essay on _The Literary Influence of Sterne in France_,
Publications of the Modern Language Association of America, volume
xvii, pages 221–236.

[35] It would be interesting, for instance, to determine whether
Mérimée learned anything in form from Poushkin.

[36] Vide the excellent discourse of G. C. Verplanck, Esq., before the
New York Historical Society.

[37] Not in the first edition.

[38] In New Hampshire.

[39] In the original publication the name is Patience.

[40] [“In place of this clause the first edition has: “Her figure,
her air, her features,--all, in their very minutest development were
those--were identically (I can use no other sufficient term) were
identically those of the Roderick Usher who sat beside me. A feeling of
stupor,” etc.]

[41] Watson, Dr. Percival, Spallanzani, and especially the Bishop of
Llandaff. See Chemical Essays, vol. v.

[42] The season of peach-blossoms was the only season of marriage in
ancient China.

[43] The most common decorations of rooms, halls, and temples, in
China, are ornamental scrolls or labels of colored paper or wood,
painted and gilded, and hung over doors or windows, and inscribed with
a line or couplet conveying some allusion to the circumstances of the
inhabitant, or some pious or philosophical axiom. For instance, a
poetical one recorded by Dr. Morrison:--

    “From the pine forest the azure dragon ascends to the milky way,”--

typical of the prosperous man arising to wealth and honors.




INDEX

    [_Titles of books and periodicals are in quotation marks; titles of
    separate stories, in italics_]


  Addison, a model for Irving, 6

  Aldrich, Thomas Bailey, 34

  _Alice Doane’s Appeal_ (Hawthorne), 13

  Allegory, 10, 14, 23, 230

  _Ambitious Guest, The_ (Hawthorne), 14

  American literature, brevity of, 1;
    wherein American, 1–4, 8, 35;
    American life in, 3–6, 11, 12

  “American Monthly Magazine, The,” 113

  _Amis and Amile_, 25

  Anecdote, 10, 24, 26, 27, 29

  Annuals, American, 2, 4, 5, 9–12, 18

  Antonius Diogenes, 24

  “Appleton’s Journal,” 245

  Apuleius, 30

  Aristides of Miletus, 24

  Aristotle, “Poetics,” 13, 19, 20

  _Arsène Guillot_ (Mérimée), 31

  Artificiality in short story, 20, 32

  “Ass, The,” of Lucian, 24

  “Atlantic Monthly, The,” 247

  “Atlantic Souvenir, The,” 2, 4, 5, 11

  _Aucassin and Nicolette_, 25, 27, 31

  Austin, William, 1, 10, 12, 59–95;
    biographical and critical sketch, 59;
    _Joseph Natterstrom_, 1, 10;
    _Peter Rugg_, 10, 12, 60–95


  Bacon, Delia, 11

  Balzac, Honoré de, 32–33;
    _El verdugo_, _Les proscrits_, _La messe de l’athée_, _Z. Marcas_,
        32;
    form in, 32–33

  Bandello, 29

  Beckwith, Hiram W., 97

  _Bee-Tree, The_ (Kirkland), 195–210

  Beers, Henry A., 2, 177

  _Ben Hadar_ (Paulding), 10

  _Berenice_ (Poe), 2, 3, 16, 18, 21, 22, 33

  Blackwell, Robert, 97

  Boccaccio, “The Decameron,” 26–28, 30

  “Boston Book, The,” 61

  Brunetière, Ferdinand, 26

  _Buckthorne and His Friends_ (Irving), 8

  Bunner, Henry Cuyler, 289–301;
    biographical and critical note, 289;
    _The Third Figure of the Cotillion_, 289;
    _The Love Letters of Smith_, 291–301

  Burton’s “Gentleman’s Magazine,” 154


  Cable, George W., 5, 34;
    _Posson Jone_, 34

  Cairns, William B., 2, 6, 325

  Canby, Henry Seidel, 325

  _Carmen_ (Mérimée), 31

  _Catholic, The_, 4

  “Cena Trimalchionis,” of Petronius, 24

  “Cent nouvelles nouvelles, Les,” 28, 30

  Character, development of, 13, 26, 27

  Chassang, A., 325

  Chaucer, 25, 28;
    _The Man of Law_, _The Pardoner_, _Troilus and Criseyde_, 25

  _Chivalric Sailor, The_ (Sedgwick), 11

  Clemens, Samuel L. (Mark Twain), 4, 34;
    _The Jumping Frog_, 34

  Climax (_see_ Culmination)

  _Colomba_ (Mérimée), 31

  _Combe à l’homme mort, La_ (Nodier), 29, 30

  Compression of time, in short story, 8, 11, 12, 13, 19, 20, 27, 28,
        33 (_see_ Unity)

  “Condensed Novels” (Harte), 229

  Consistency of form, 9, 23, 26–28, 31, 32, 33 (_see_ Unity)

  _Conte_ and _nouvelle_, 30, 31, 33

  “Contes de la Reine de Navarre” (_see_ “Heptameron”)

  Cooper, James Fenimore, 1, 5

  Cornelius Sisenna, 24

  Culmination, in short story, 7, 8, 10, 20–22, 26–28, 31, 32, 33


  _Damnation of Theron Ware, The_ (Frederic), 303

  Dana, Richard Henry, _Paul Felton_, 11

  _Daphne, The_ (Webster), 245

  _Daphnis and Chloe_, 24–25

  “Dashes at Life with a Free Pencil” (Willis), 178

  Daudet, Alphonse, 30, 34

  _David Swan_ (Hawthorne), 14

  “Decameron, The,” 26–28

  De Quincey, Thomas, 30

  Descriptive sketches, 9, 12, 14, 31, 99, 113, 193

  Dialogue and monologue, 19, 27

  _Diamond Lens, The_ (O’Brien), 211

  Dickens, Charles, influence of, on Bret Harte, 230;
    on O’Brien, 211

  Dio Chrysostom, 25

  Directness of movement, 18, 19, 20, 26, 27

  Documentary interest, in fiction, 3, 30

  Dominant, use of a single detail as, 16, 21, 22

  Drama, influence of, on novel and short story, 26, 34

  Dumas, Alexandre, influence of, on Bret Harte, 230


  Edgeworth, Maria, 26

  _Emigrant’s Daughter, The_, 5

  _End of the Passage, The_ (Kipling), 212

  _Enlèvement de la redoute, Le_ (Mérimée), 31

  _Esmeralda, The_ (Wallace), 11

  Essay tendency in tales, 6, 7, 10, 14, 15, 18, 32

  _Ethan Brand_ (Hawthorne), 13

  _Eve of the Fourth, The_ (Frederic), 305–324

  Exposition in tales (_see_ Essay tendency)


  _Fall of the House of Usher, The_ (Poe), 18, 154–176

  _Fancy’s Show Box_ (Hawthorne), 14

  _Filleule du Seigneur, La_ (Nodier), 30

  Flaubert, Gustave, 30

  Flint, Timothy, 5

  _Florus, King, and the Fair Jehane_, 25

  _Fool’s Moustache, A_ (Webster), 245

  “Forest Life” (Kirkland), 193

  France, Anatole, 29

  Frederic, Harold, 303–324;
    biographical and critical note, 303;
    “In the Sixties,” 303;
    _The Eve of the Fourth_, 305–324;
    _The Damnation of Theron Ware_, 303

  Fromentin, Eugène, 3

  Frontier, tales of the, 5, 10, 12, 97–127, 193–210, 229–243


  Gautier, Théophile, 30, 33;
    _Le nid de rossignols_, _La mort amoureuse_, 33;
    preferred _nouvelle_ to _conte_, diffuseness, influence of Sterne,
        tendency to mere description, likeness to Poe, 33

  Genlis, Mme. de, moral tales of, 10

  “Gentleman’s Magazine and American Monthly Review,” Burton’s, 154

  _German Student, The_ (Irving), 8

  Gift-books (_see_ Annuals)

  Gilbert, E., 29, 325

  Gilman, Mrs., 5

  “Golden Era, The,” 229

  Goldsmith, influence on Irving, 6

  Gradation, 20–23, 32 (_see_ Sequence)

  _Great Good Place, The_ (James), 34

  _Great Stone Face, The_ (Hawthorne), 14


  Hale, Mrs., 5

  Hall, James, 5, 9, 11, 12, 97–112;
    biographical and critical note, 97;
    “The Illinois Intelligencer,” “The Illinois Magazine,” “The Western
        Monthly Magazine,” “Letters from the West,” “Sketches of the
        West,” “Notes on the Western States,” “The Wilderness and the
        War Path,” 97;
    “The Western Souvenir,” 5, 97;
    _The Indian Hater_, _Pete Featherton_, 5;
    _The Village Musician_, 9;
    _The French Village_, 5, 9, 12, 99–112

  Harmonisation, 16, 23

  “Harper’s Monthly Magazine,” 212, 213

  Hart, Walter Morris, 325

  Harte, Francis Bret, 4, 229–243;
    biographical and critical note, 229;
    “Condensed Novels,” 229;
    _The Luck of Roaring Camp_, 229, 230;
    _Johnson’s Old Woman_, _Mrs. Skaggs’s Husbands_, _The Iliad of
        Sandy Bar_, _Tennessee’s Partner_, 230;
    _The Outcasts of Poker Flat_, 231–243;
    influence of Dickens, 230;
    of Dumas, 230;
    tendency to melodrama, 230;
    local truth, 229;
    symbolism, 230

  Hawthorne, Nathaniel, 2, 5, 9, 10, 12–15, 16, 18, 23, 30, 31, 32, 59,
        129–142, 230;
    bent not toward short story, 12–15, 31;
    allegory, symbolism, 14, 23, 230;
    vocabulary, 16;
    tendency toward description, 14;
    toward essay, 14, 15, 18, 30;
    expository introductions, 18;
    unity compared with Poe’s, 23;
    likeness to Nodier, 30;
    “Twice-Told Tales,” 131;
    _The Gentle Boy_, 12;
    _The Wives of the Dead_, 12, 13;
    _Roger Malvin’s Burial_, _Alice Doane’s Appeal_, _Ethan Brand_, 13;
    _The Scarlet Letter_, 13, 14;
    _Sunday at Home_, _Sights from a Steeple_, _Main Street_, _The
        Village Uncle_, _The Ambitious Guest_, _Fancy’s Show Box_,
        _David Swan_, _The Snow Image_, _The Great Stone Face_, 14;
    _The Marble Faun_, 15;
    _The White Old Maid_, 13, 131–142;
    _The Seven Vagabonds_, 230

  “Heptameron, The,” of the Queen of Navarre, 29

  _Hermit of the Prairies, The_, 5

  “Hermite de la Chaussée d’Antin, Le,” 6

  Higginson, Thomas Wentworth, 59

  Historical tales, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11

  Hoax-story, 10, 34

  _Horla, Le_ (Maupassant), 212


  _Iliad of Sandy Bar, The_ (Harte), 230

  “Illinois Intelligencer, The,” 97

  “Illinois Magazine, The,” 97

  “In the Sixties” (Frederic), 305

  _Indian Hater, The_ (Hall), 5

  _Inlet of Peach Blossoms, The_ (Willis), 179–191

  _Inroad of the Nabajo, The_ (Pike), 115–127

  Intensity, in short story, 12, 22, 32, 34

  Introductions to tales, 7, 10, 17, 18, 19, 31, 99, 195

  Irving, Washington, 1, 4, 5, 6–9, 18, 29, 37–58, 143, 289;
    looseness of form, 7, 8;
    characterisation, 7;
    unity of tone, 7;
    influence of, 8, 9, 143, 289;
    introductions, 18;
    “The Sketch Book,” 7;
    “Tales of a Traveller,” 8, 143;
    _The Wife_, _The Widow and Her Son_, _The Pride of the Village_,
        _The Spectre Bridegroom_, 7;
    _Buckthorne and His Friends_, _The German Student_, 8;
    _Philip of Pokanoket_, 9;
    _Rip Van Winkle_, 7, 8, 37–58


  Jacobs, Joseph, 25

  James, Henry, 34

  _Jean François-les-bas-bleus_ (Nodier), 30

  _Johnson’s Old Woman_ (Harte), 230

  _Joseph Natterstrom_ (Austin), 1, 10

  Jouy, M. de, 6

  _Jumping Frog, The_ (Mark Twain), 34


  Keepsakes (_see_ Annuals)

  Kennedy, John Pendleton, 5, 9;
    “Swallow Barn,” 9

  Kinetic narrative, and static, 22

  _King Pest_ (Poe), 18, 22

  Kipling, Rudyard, 34, 212;
    _The End of the Passage_, 212

  Kirkland, Mrs., 5, 6, 193–210;
    biographical and critical note, 193;
    “A New Home--Who’ll Follow,” “Forest Life,” “Western Clearings,”
        193;
    _The Bee-Tree_, 195–210

  Kirkland, William, 193


  Landor, Walter Savage, 30

  “Letters from Arkansas” (Pike), 113

  “Letters from the West” (Hall), 97

  _Lidivine_ (Nodier), 30

  _Ligeia_ (Poe), 16, 18

  “Literati” (Poe), 193

  Local color, 3–6, 9, 11, 12, 34, 97, 113, 193, 229, 303

  Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth, 143–151;
    biographical and critical note, 143;
    “Outre-Mer,” 143;
    _The Notary of Périgueux_, 145–151

  Longus, 24, 25

  _Love Letters of Smith, The_ (Bunner), 291–301

  Lucian, 24

  _Luck of Roaring Camp, The_ (Harte), 229, 230


  Magazines, American, 2–5, 9, 34 (and see separate titles)

  _Main Street_ (Hawthorne), 14

  _Maison Tellier, La_ (Maupassant), 230

  _Man of Law, The_ (Chaucer), 25

  _Marble Faun, The_ (Hawthorne), 15

  Margaret of Angoulême, Queen of Navarre, the “Heptameron” of, 29

  _Marjorie Daw_ (Aldrich), 34

  _Mary Dyre_ (Sedgwick), 11

  _Matron of Ephesus, The_ (Petronius), 24

  Matthews, Brander, 8, 11, 22, 31, 212, 325;
    edition of Irving’s “Tales of a Traveller,” 8;
    “The Philosophy of the Short-Story,” 11, 22, 31, 212, 325

  Maupassant, Guy de, 30, 34, 212, 230;
    _La maison Tellier_, 230;
    _Le Horla_, 212

  Mediæval tales, 23–29, 31

  Melodrama, tendency toward, in earlier American tales, 4, 5, 11;
    in O’Brien, 211;
    in Bret Harte, 230

  Mérimée, Prosper, 30–34;
    narrative conciseness, 31;
    preferred _nouvelle_ to _conte_, 31, 34;
    and Poe, 32;
    _Carmen_, _Colomba_, _Arsène Guillot_, _L’enlèvement de la
        redoute_, _Tamango_, _La vision de Charles XI_, _Le vase
        étrusque_, 31;
    _La Vénus d’Ille_, 31, 32

  _Messe de l’athée, La_ (Balzac), 32

  _Methodist’s Story, The_, 4

  _Metzengerstein_ (Poe), 16, 18, 22

  Milesian tales, 24

  “Mirror, The New York,” 177, 178

  _Miss Eunice’s Glove_ (Webster), 247–266

  Mitchell, Donald G., 1

  Mitford, Mary Russell, 193

  Moland and d’Héricault, 325

  Monologue, Poe’s, 19

  Moral tales, 4, 9, 10, 14, 30;
    allegory in, 10, 14;
    of Mme. de Genlis, 10;
    of Nodier, 10, 30;
    oriental setting for, 10

  _Morella_ (Poe), 16, 17, 18, 21, 22

  Morris, William, 25, 326

  _Morte Amoureuse, La_ (Gautier), 33

  _Mrs. Skaggs’s Husbands_ (Harte), 230

  Musset, Alfred de, 33

  _My Wife’s Tempter_ (O’Brien), 211


  Narantsauk, 4

  Nationality in literature, 3–6, 11, 12

  “New England Galaxy, The,” 61

  “New England Magazine, The,” 2, 131

  “New Home, A,--Who’ll Follow” (Kirkland), 193

  “New York Mirror, The,” 177, 178

  _Nid de rossignols, Le_ (Gautier), 33

  Nodier, Charles, 10, 29, 30, 31;
    preferred _nouvelle_ to _conte_, 30, 31;
    similarity to Hawthorne, 30;
    _Les quatre talismans_, 10;
    _La combe à l’homme mort_, 29, 30;
    _Smarra_, _Jean François-les-bas-bleus_, _Lidivine_, _La filleule
        du Seigneur_, 30

  “Notes on the Western States” (Hall), 97

  _Nouvelle_, and _conte_, 30, 31, 33;
    and _roman_, 31

  Novel and short story, 8, 12, 13, 15, 21, 25, 26

  Novelette, 31

  _Novella_, 27, 30


  O’Brien, Fitz-James, 211–228;
    biographical and critical note, 211;
    _The Diamond Lens_, _The Wondersmith_, _Tommatoo_, _My Wife’s
        Tempter_, 211;
    _What Was It?_, 213–228

  _Operation in Money, An_ (Webster), 245

  Oriental tales, 10, 25

  _Outcasts of Poker Flat, The_ (Harte), 231–243

  “Outre-Mer” (Longfellow), 143

  “Overland Monthly, The,” 229, 231

  _Owner of “Lara,” The_ (Webster), 245


  _Pardoner, The_ (Chaucer), 25

  Pastoral romance, 25

  _Paul Felton_ (Dana), 11

  Paulding, James K., _Ben Hadar_, 10

  Peck, Harry Thurston, 326

  “Pencillings by the Way” (Willis), 177

  Periodicals (_see_ Annuals, Magazines)

  Perry, Bliss, 326

  _Pete Featherton_ (Hall), 5

  _Peter Rugg, the Missing Man_ (Austin), 10, 12, 60–95

  Petronius, “Cena Trimalchionis,” “Satyricon,” 24

  _Philip of Pokanoket_ (Irving), 9

  Picaresque story, 24

  Pike, Albert, 12, 113–127;
    biographical and critical note, 113;
    “Prose Sketches and Poems,” 12, 115;
    “Letters from Arkansas,” 113;
    “Hymns to the Gods,” 113;
    _The Inroad of the Nabajo_, 115–127

  Plot (_see_ Compression, Culmination Novel, Short story, Time-lapse,
        Unity)

  Plots, simple or complex, 12, 13

  Poe, Edgar Allan, 3, 4, 9, 12, 15–23, 32, 33, 153–176, 193, 211;
    genius for form, 9, 16;
    preoccupation with structure, 16;
    review of Hawthorne, 14, 22;
    characters, 16;
    detective stories, 16, 20;
    harmonisation, 16, 23;
    refrain, 16, 17, 21;
    vocabulary, 16, 17;
    cadence, 16;
    suppression of introductions, 18, 19;
    simplification for directness, 19;
    setting, 19;
    habit of monologue, 19;
    gradation, 20–23;
    artificiality, 20, 32;
    grotesque, 22;
    kinetic narrative, and static, 22;
    conception of unity, 22, 23;
    application of Schlegel, 22;
    review of Mrs. Sigourney, 22;
    symbolism, 23;
    and Hawthorne, 18, 20, 23;
    and Mérimée, 32;
    and Gautier, 33;
    and O’Brien, 211;
    “Literati,” 193;
    _Berenice_, 2, 3, 16, 18, 21, 22, 33;
    _Metzengerstein_, 16, 18, 22;
    _Morella_, 16, 17, 18, 21, 22;
    _Ligeia_, 16, 18;
    _King Pest_, 18, 22;
    _The Tell-Tale Heart_, 18;
    _The Fall of the House of Usher_, 18, 154–176

  “Poetics,” of Aristotle, 13, 19, 20

  “Portfolio, The,” 97

  _Posson Jone_ (Cable), 34

  Poushkin, 34

  Premonition, 21, 31

  _Pride of the Village, The_ (Irving), 7

  _Proscrits, Les_ (Balzac), 32

  “Prose Sketches and Poems” (Pike), 12, 114

  “Puck,” 289


  _Quatre talismans, Les_ (Nodier), 10


  _Reminiscence of Federalism, A_ (Sedgwick), 11

  Richepin, 34

  _Rip Van Winkle_ (Irving), 7, 8, 37–58

  _Roger Malvin’s Burial_ (Hawthorne), 13

  Romances, short, 4, 10, 11, 25, 27;
    American, 4, 11;
    summary or scenario, 10, 25;
    pastoral, 25;
    mediæval, 25–28, 29

  Romanticism, 4, 7, 8, 11


  “Satyricon” (Petronius), 24

  _Scarlet Letter, The_ (Hawthorne), 13, 14

  Scenario, or summary romance, 10, 13, 24, 26, 27

  Schlegel, Poe’s application of, 22

  Scott, Sir Walter, influence of, 11, 37

  Sedgwick, Charlotte M., _A Reminiscence of Federalism_, _Mary Dyre_,
        _The Chivalric Sailor_, 11

  Sequence of incidents, 7, 8, 9, 10, 16, 20–23 (_see_ Gradation)

  Setting, 16 (_see_ Local color)

  _Seven Vagabonds, The_ (Hawthorne), 230

  “Short Sixes” (Bunner), 291

  Short story, in antiquity, 24, 25;
    in middle age, 25–29;
    in France, 29–35;
    in America, 1–23, 34, 35;
    in England, 33, 34;
    in other countries, 34;
    popularity of, 3, 34;
    distinct from tale and novel, 2, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 21, 23–27,
        29–31;
    unity of, 7, 8, 11–13, 15–23;
    intensity of, 12, 13, 32 (_see_ Unity)

  “Short-Story, The Philosophy of the” (Matthews), 11, 12, 31, 212, 325

  _Sights from a Steeple_ (Hawthorne), 14

  Simple plots and complex, 13–15, 25, 26

  Simplification of narrative mechanism, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 17–20, 23
        (_see_ Unity)

  Singleness, 13, 15, 19, 31 (_see_ Unity)

  Situation, a single, in short story, 12, 26, 27, 28, 31

  “Sketch Book, The” (Irving), 7, 8, 37

  “Sketches of the West” (Hall), 97

  _Smarra_ (Nodier), 30

  _Snow Image, The_ (Hawthorne), 14

  “Southern Literary Messenger, The,” 2, 33

  “Spectator, The,” 6, 7, 9;
    influence on Irving, 6, 7;
    on the British novel, 6;
    in France, 6;
    on J. P. Kennedy, 9;
    in Virginia, 9

  _Spectre Bridegroom, The_ (Irving), 7

  Static narrative, and kinetic, 22

  Sterne, Lawrence, influence on Gautier, 33

  Stevenson, Robert Louis, 34

  Stockton, Frank R., _The Wreck of the Thomas Hyke_, 34

  _Sunday at Home_ (Hawthorne), 14

  Suspense, 10, 16, 20

  “Swallow Barn” (Kennedy), 9

  Symbolism, 10, 14, 23, 230


  Tale, a constant literary form, 25, 26;
    distinct from short story (which see);
    anecdote, 10, 24, 26, 29;
    summary or fragmentary, 13, 15, 23, 24, 27;
    moral, 4, 9, 10, 14, 30;
    historical, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11;
    yarn, 10, 34;
    oriental, 10, 25

  Tales, ancient, 23–25;
    Milesian, 24;
    mediæval, 25–29, 31;
    modern French, 30;
    American, before 1835, 1–12

  “Tales of a Traveller” (Irving), 8, 143

  _Tamango_ (Mérimée), 31

  Taylor, Bayard, 267–287;
    biographical and critical note, 267;
    _Who Was She?_, 269–287

  _Tell-Tale Heart, The_ (Poe), 18

  _Tennessee’s Partner_ (Harte), 230

  Theocritus, the fifteenth idyl of, 25

  Thoreau, Henry David, 1

  Time-lapse, management of, 8, 11, 12, 13, 19–21, 27–29, 31, 32

  “Token, The,” 2, 5

  _Tommatoo_ (O’Brien), 211

  Totality of interest, Poe’s principle of, 22

  _Troilus and Criseyde_ (Chaucer), 25


  Unities, the classical, 19, 20, 34, 289

  Unity, in short story, of purpose, 8, 16–23;
    of tone, 7, 16–19, 22, 23;
    of form, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 16–19, 22, 23, 25–29, 31–33, 59, 113,
        143, 177, 193, 211, 230, 289;
    of time, 8, 11, 12, 13, 19–21, 27–29, 31, 32;
    of place, 12, 13, 19, 27, 29, 32;
    by suppression, 19, 32;
    and artificiality, 20, 32


  _Vase étrusque, Le_ (Mérimée), 31

  _Vénus d’Ille, La_ (Mérimée), 31

  _Verdugo, El_ (Balzac), 32

  _Village Uncle, The_ (Hawthorne), 14

  _Vision de Charles XI, La_ (Mérimée), 31

  Voltaire, 10


  Wallace, Godfrey, _The Esmeralda_, 11

  Webster, Albert Falvey, 245–266;
    biographical and critical note, 245;
    _An Operation in Money_, _The Daphne_, _A Fool’s Moustache_, _The
        Owner of Lara_, 245;
    _Miss Eunice’s Glove_, 247–266

  “Weekly Californian, The,” (Harte), 229

  “Western Clearings” (Kirkland), 193, 195

  “Western Monthly Magazine, The” (Hall), 97

  “Western Monthly Review, The,” 5

  “Western Souvenir, The” (Hall), 5, 97, 99

  _What Was It?_ (O’Brien), 213–228

  _White Old Maid, The_ (Hawthorne), 13, 131–142

  Whitman, Walt, 3

  _Who Was She?_ (Taylor), 269–287

  _Widow and Her Son, The_ (Irving), 7

  _Wife, The_ (Irving), 7

  “Wilderness and the War Path, The” (Hall), 97

  Wilkins, Mary E., 11

  Willis, Nathaniel Parker, 177–191, 193;
    biographical and critical note, 177;
    “Pencillings by the Way,” “Dashes at Life with a Free Pencil,” 177;
    _The Inlet of Peach Blossoms_, 179–191

  _Wives of the Dead, The_ (Hawthorne), 12, 13

  _Wondersmith, The_ (O’Brien), 211

  _Wreck of the Thomas Hyke, The_ (Stockton), 34


  Yarn, 10, 34


  _Z. Marcas_ (Balzac), 32


PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA




Transcriber’s Notes


Punctuation, hyphenation, and spelling were made consistent when a
predominant preference was found in the original book; otherwise they
were not changed.

Simple typographical errors were corrected; unbalanced quotation
marks were remedied when the change was obvious, and otherwise left
unbalanced.

Footnotes, originally at the bottoms of the pages that referenced them,
have been collected, sequentially renumbered, and placed at the end of
the book.

The index was not checked for proper alphabetization or correct page
references.

