
One thing he could find out: how long this had been going on. He
turned to the communicator and unhooked the paper receptacle on its
bottom. It held about a yard and a half of tape, probably his last
several messages--both those sent and those received. He pulled it out
impatiently and began reading.

The first was from himself:

    YOUR SUGGESTIONS NO HELP. HOW AM I GOING TO REPAIR DAMAGE TO SCOUT
    WITHOUT PROPER EQUIPMENT? AND WHERE DO I GET IT? DO YOU THINK I
    FOUND A TOOL SHOP DOWN HERE? FOR GOD'S SAKE, COME UP WITH SOMETHING
    BETTER.

    VISITED SEAL-PEOPLE AGAIN TODAY. STILL HAVE THEIR STINK IN MY NOSE.
    FOUND HUTS ALONG RIVER BANK, SO I GUESS THEY DON'T LIVE IN WATER.
    BUT THEY DO SPEND MOST OF THEIR TIME THERE. NO, I HAVE NO WAY OF
    ESTIMATING THEIR INTELLIGENCE. I WOULD JUDGE IT AVERAGES NO HIGHER
    THAN SEVEN-YEAR-OLD HUMAN. THEY DEFINITELY DO TALK TO ONE ANOTHER.
    WILL TRY TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT THEM, BUT YOU GET TO WORK FAST ON
    HOW I REPAIR SCOUT.

    SWELLING IN ARM WORSE AND AM DEVELOPING A FEVER. TEMPERATURE 102.7
    AN HOUR AGO.

    SMOKY

The ship must have answered immediately, for the return message time
was six hours later than his own, the minimum interval necessary for
two-way exchange.

    DOING OUR BEST, SMOKY. YOUR IMMEDIATE PROBLEM, AS WE SEE IT, IS TO
    KEEP WELL. WE FED ALL THE INFORMATION YOU GAVE US INTO SAM, BUT YOU
    DIDN'T HAVE MUCH EXCEPT THE STING IN YOUR ARM. AS EXPECTED, ALL
    THAT CAME OUT WAS "DATA INSUFFICIENT." TRY TO GIVE US MORE. ALSO
    DETAIL ALL SYMPTOMS SINCE YOUR LAST REPORT. IN THE MEANTIME, WE'RE
    DOING EVERYTHING WE CAN AT THIS END. GOOD LUCK.

    SS II

Sam, Kaiser knew, was the ship's mechanical diagnostician. His report
followed:

    ARM SWOLLEN. UNABLE TO KEEP DOWN FOOD LAST TWELVE HOURS. ABOUT TWO
    HOURS AGO, ENTIRE BODY TURNED LIVID RED. BRIEF PERIODS OF
    BLANKNESS. THINGS KEEP COMING AND GOING. SICK AS HELL. HURRY.

    SMOKY

The ship's next message read:

    INFECTION QUITE DEFINITE. BUT SOMETHING STRANGE THERE. GIVE US
    ANYTHING MORE YOU HAVE.

    SS II

His own reply perplexed Kaiser:

    LAST LETTER FUNNY. I NOT UNDERSTAND. WHY IS OO SENDING GARBLE TALK?
    DID USNS MAKE UP SECRET MESSAGES?

    SMOKY

The expedition, apparently, was as puzzled as he:

    WHAT'S THE MATTER, SMOKY? THAT LAST MESSAGE WAS IN PLAIN TERRAN. NO
    REASON WHY YOU COULDN'T READ IT. AND WHY THE BABY TALK? IF YOU'RE
    SPOOFING, STOP. GIVE US MORE SYMPTOMS. HOW ARE YOU FEELING NOW?

    SS II

The baby talk was worse on Kaiser's next:

    TWAZY. WHAT FOR OO TENDING TWAZY LETTERS? FINK UM CAN WEAD TWAZY
    LETTERS? SKIN ALL YELLOW NOW. COLD. COLD. CO

The ship's following communication was three hours late. It was the
last on the tape--the one Kaiser had read earlier. Apparently they
decided to humor him.

    OO IS SICK, SMOKY. DO TO BEDDY-BY. KEEP UM WARM. WHEN UM FEELS
    BETTER, LET USNS KNOW.

    SS II

That was not much help. All it told him was that he had been sick.

He felt better now, outside of a muscular weariness, as though
convalescing from a long illness. He put the back of his hand to his
forehead. Cool. No fever anyway.

He glanced at the clock-calendar on the instrument board and back at
the date and time on the tape where he'd started his baby talk. Twenty
hours. He hadn't been out of his head too long. He began punching the
communicator keys while he nibbled at a biscuit.

    SEEM TO BE FULLY RECOVERED. FEELING FINE. ANYTHING NEW FROM SAM?
    AND HOW ABOUT THE DAMAGE TO SCOUT? GIVE ME ANYTHING YOU HAVE ON
    EITHER OR BOTH.

    SMOKY

Kaiser felt suddenly weary. He lay on the scout's bunk and tried
to sleep. Soon he was in that phantasm land between sleep and
wakefulness--he knew he was not sleeping, yet he did dream.

It was the same dream he had had many times before. In it, he was back
home again, the home he had joined the space service to escape. He had
realized soon after his marriage that his wife, Helene, did not love
him. She had married him for the security his pay check provided. And
though it soon became evident that she, too, regretted her bargain,
she would not divorce him. Instead, she had her revenge on him by
persistent nagging, by letting herself grow fat and querulous, and by
caring for their house only in a slovenly way.

Her crippled brother had moved in with them the day they were married.
His mind was as crippled as his body and he took an unhealthy delight
in helping his sister torment Kaiser.
