
The town looked substantially the same as the one he had just left,
though he was pleased to note that Finlay's Lumber Co. was no longer in
sight. It was proof that he had made the switch successfully. For some
reason, Finlay never seemed to have established his business anywhere
but in Charles Mead's world. There were similar changes in every
world--some large changes, some small--but at least Hobson's Hill was
always there, which was why he chose it as his jumping-off point.

Charles Mead set off down the hill and along the highway into town. In
a telephone booth, he searched the directory and then began walking
again with a new eagerness in his step.

Ten minutes later, he turned onto the front porch of a small, neat
brick bungalow. He was about to press the bell button when he paused,
listening. From inside the house, he heard voices yelling--a man and a
woman--strident with anger.

Charles Mead smiled faintly and rather smugly and put his finger to the
button. The voices stopped yelling as the bell jangled somewhere in the
house. A moment later, the front door opened and, at the same time, he
heard a woman's high heels stamping through to the back of the house.
Then a door slammed.

The man in the doorway wore moccasins, jeans and a red plaid shirt.
Except for the general sloppiness of his dress compared with the
unwrinkled neatness of Charles Mead's expensive gray slacks and
sports jacket, the pair could have been twins. Both were slim and tall
with the slightly stooped appearance of tall men. Their short, sandy
hair and wide blue eyes gave them both a boyish look.

"Chuck Mead?" Charles Mead asked. This one was sure to be called Chuck,
he thought.

The man nodded, frowning slightly.

"Good," said Charles. "That's my name, too. May I come in?"

He pushed his way past the bewildered Chuck Mead, went into the living
room and sat down.
