
Nodding emphatically, Chuck said, "Of course. Your Utopia is as remote
to me as Heaven or Hell. The important thing is not the hundreds of
lives you could have led or all the possibilities that occur in your
lifetime. The thing that counts is what you do with the one lifetime
that's given to you. You're not happy with Estelle so you blame
Estelle, thinking you'd be happier with Kathy or someone else. I felt
the same way about Kathy and thought I'd be happier with Estelle. Now
that you've given us both the opportunity to see ourselves ruining
_both_ lives, we can see that it's probably us at fault. If you
want to find the perfect Charles Mead, you have to find him inside
yourself--not in some untouchable otherworld."

"You should have been a minister," Charles told him. "You preach a good
sermon."

Chuck's boyish face reddened suddenly. "It still goes, anyway. Perhaps
I've spent more time than you lately wondering why my marriage was
breaking up. Maybe I have the answer now."

"So you're going back to the little woman, filled with love and kisses
and a heart full of hope!"

"Forget it," Chuck said. "Forget I said anything at all."

"Don't worry about it. No hard feelings. You're perfectly free to do or
say what you like." He suddenly smiled and then began to laugh aloud.

"What's funny?" Chuck asked.

"Plenty," said Charles. "I just realized we both made decisions a few
minutes ago. We both chose between two alternatives. You decided to
go home to Kathy instead of going with me. I decided to go on with my
quest instead of going back to Estelle."

"What about it?"

"Remember what I told you? Every time you choose one of two alternative
courses of action, _another world comes into existence in which you
follow the other course of action_! Don't you see what that means?"
