
I stopped typing again, and I looked curiously at the sheet of paper. I
took a bite of the salami sandwich, washed it down with a gulp of milk,
and then stared at what I'd written, leaning back with my hands off the
keys.

"Well, I'll be damned," I said aloud. "Poe!"

The keys suddenly started clacking of their own accord, and my mouth
fell open in surprise. I stared at the sheet of paper as the carriage
moved frantically, watching the black letters appear against its
whiteness.

_OF COURSE, POE! WHAT DID YOU EXPECT: HEMINGWAY?_

I blinked my eyes twice.

"I beg your pardon," I said.

The keys clacked, and the carriage moved, and I watched more words
appear on the paper.

_CAN'T YOU READ, IDIOT?_

"Of course I can read!" I protested.

_THEN WHY DID YOU BEG MY PARDON?_

I put my nose close to the keys and studied them. Then I looked around
the room suspiciously. I was alone.

"This is absurd," I said. "Who ever heard of a typewriter...."

_WHAT'S ABSURD?_

I pointed my finger sharply at the machine. "And if you're so smart,
why are you all in upper case? Suppose you tell me that!"

_BECAUSE YOU LEFT THE SHIFT KEY LOCKED. IF YOU'D SIMPLY_--

I stabbed out with my finger at the shift release, and the carriage
dropped abruptly.

_unlock the shift ... ok, there, thats much better._

"You left out an apostrophe," I said meekly.

_did i, well i cant very well shift of my own accord, you know. im
afraid this will have to do._

I sat back and smiled, watching the machine as the words appeared. I
kept smiling even after the carriage stopped moving.

_whats so funny._

"Hmm? Oh, nothing. Nothing, really. I was just...." I spread my hand
helplessly. "... just smiling."

_it would be just my luck to get another idiot. as if the shopkeeper
wasn't bad enough._

"I think I like you better upper case," I said.

_do you._

"Yes. That way, at least, you've got the apostrophes and question
marks. I find it difficult to follow you this way."

_i imagine youd find it difficult to follow me any way. but shift
again, if you must._

"Thank you." I stabbed out at the shift key, and locked it in place.

_DON'T THANK ME. I'M JUST TRYING TO ESTABLISH SOME SORT OF RAPPORT
BETWEEN US._

"Well, I certainly do appreciate your efforts. You are real, aren't
you? I mean, it's not the salami or anything."

_NO, IT'S NOT THE SALAMI OR ANYTHING. GOD, YOU ARE AN IDIOT, AREN'T
YOU?_

I shrugged. "Not really. I'm not quite used to holding conversations
with typewriters, though. I usually ... well, that is to say
typewriters haven't usually answered me back."

_ARE YOU A WRITER?_

"Well, yes. Odd you should have guessed, isn't it?"

_THEN LET'S START WRITING. I'VE GOT SOME WONDERFUL IDEAS._

I smiled happily. "Well, all right. Let's. Do you want me to do the
actual typing?"

_OF COURSE. HOW ELSE WOULD I SHIFT?_

"That's right. I hadn't thought of it. Well, are you ready?"

_QUITE._

"Good. I've got a lot of ideas, too." I hunched over the machine,
beginning to enjoy this immensely now. I suddenly remembered that the
paper already had writing on it, so I put in a clean sheet and said.
"Let's see now, where should I begin?" I thought for a few moments, and
then leaned over eagerly. I knew just what I wanted to type. It began
with: _The day was crisp and clear, with the promise_....

I poised my fingers over the keys and smiled happily. Still smiling, I
started to type.

_Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,_

_Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore_--

"Oh!" I exclaimed. I stopped typing abruptly.

_what is it now. and please lock the shift._

"Sorry," I mumbled. I locked the shift key.

_WELL, WHAT IS IT?_

"Nothing. Except I ... I don't write poetry."

_WHAT DO YOU WRITE?_

"Fiction. Yes, fiction."

_OH, ALL RIGHT. PUT A CLEAN SHEET INTO ME AND WE'LL START ALL OVER
AGAIN._
