
"You're a fake and a fraud!" I sat down in front of the machine and
snorted.

_WHAT?_

"You heard me. You nearly had me fooled. Poe--Shakespeare, indeed!
Any schoolboy knows those two by heart. You're nothing but a cheap
plagiarist. No originality. But what can you expect from a stupid
machine?"

_STUPID?! Why, YOU--YOU--EARTHMAN!!_

I laughed. "See? What did I tell you. Now you have to stoop to
invective--" I paused for a moment and stared at the now-trembling
keyboard with a frown. "Earthman? Of course I'm an Earthman. What did
you expect?"

_HAH! WHAT OTHER CREATURES IN THE GALAXIES COULD BE SO VAIN EXCEPT A
BACKWARD RACE LIKE YOURS!_

I watched the madly clacking keys with my eyes bugging. But I managed
to keep my voice a polite sneer.

"Backward race? You seem to think Poe and Shakespeare were pretty
progressive boys. We've got hundreds more, you know. What's your claim
to fame?"

_MY CLAIM TO FAME? ISN'T IT ENOUGH THAT I'M REACHING YOU ALL THE WAY
FROM RIGEL IV? YOU HAVEN'T EVEN REACHED YOUR PUNY MOON YET!_

I gulped at that but still managed a sneer. "So you're nothing but an
eavesdropping alien. I should have known."

_YOU ONLY KNOW NOW BECAUSE I'VE TOLD YOU. THAT PROVES HOW BACKWARD YOU
ARE!_

I flicked the shift key to hide the fact that my hand was trembling.
"What do you want from--us?" I tried to make it sound bored and
simulated a yawn.

_i want to absorb your puny literature during my vacation--you've put
me in lower case shift. this cramps my literary style._

I shrugged, then lifted a querulous eyebrow. "Literary style? You don't
mean you actually have one yourself!" There was enough disdain in my
voice to get a harsh clatter from the keys with a lot of meaningless
gibberish. I reached over and flicked it back into caps.

_YOU'RE SO STUPID I DON'T KNOW WHY I BOTHER WITH YOU! STYLE? I COULD
TELL YOU STORIES THAT WOULD CURL YOUR HAIR! THE LIBRARIES HERE ON RIGEL
IV MAKE YOUR POE AND SHAKESPEARE LOOK LIKE OLD MAIDS!_

I sat back in my chair and got a crafty feeling. Before I knew it I
said, "Prove it!"

There was silence for a moment. The keys just remained dead. I reached
forward and tapped the machine.

_STOP THAT! I'M THINKING.... VERY WELL, EARTHMAN, I WILL PROVE IT!_

And he did. I sat there for the next half hour, feeding paper into the
machine, and it kept me busy. That typewriter sounded like a burp gun
with hiccoughs.

Finally the typing ceased. The carriage clattered back and there was a
final spurt of words.

_WELL? WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? READ IT!_

I read it. It made my hair curl. A story of galactic war--invasion on
Rigel IV from a race a hundred light years in space. Havoc, suspense,
adventure, all so utterly fantastic it seemed real. I was spellbound to
the last line. I stared at the machine.

_WELL?_

"--You sure this isn't another mimic job from Earth--"

_ARE YOU CALLING ME A LIAR? YOU STUPID--_

"Ok, ok, I just wanted to make sure. It's pretty good--fantastic and
all that, and a far cry from our Poe or Shakespeare, but--"

_YOU ARE TRYING TO COMPARE YOUR PUNY WRITERS WITH OURS? THAT'S THE LAST
INSULT! I'M SORRY I DECIDED TO PSI IN ON YOUR PLANET FOR MY VACATION
GOODBY_--

"Wait!" I shouted the word.

_WHY?_

"I--I'm sorry, I apologize. It's just that you caught me unprepared.
Afterall, you must admit this is something of a shock--hearing from you
God knows how many light years away...."

_WELL, NOW. THAT'S BETTER. YOU RECOGNIZE YOUR SUPERIORS AFTERALL!_

This was no time for wounded pride. So I nodded. "You're right. We're
incredibly backward--but we don't have to remain that way forever. Take
your Rigel IV libraries, for example. I'll bet your stories could teach
us a lot."

_NATURALLY._

"And," I continued, gaining confidence now, "you said you were on
vacation, absorbing some of our literature--puny as it is.... Have you
had a taste of anything besides Poe and Shakespeare?"

_NO. SHOULD I?_

"Should you? Why you've barely scraped our culture! Tell you what!
Maybe we can make a deal--"

_DEAL? WHAT'S THAT?_

"I mean, a trade. While you're on vacation I'll swap writers with you.
I'll type a story, and you reciprocate with one from your library.
Fair enough?"

_WELL ... YOU'D BE GETTING THE BEST OF THE BARGAIN...._

I nodded humbly. "I realize that. But think of the good you'd be doing,
teaching us barbarians the glorious wonders of your civilization...."

That did it. The machine actually purred.

_I'LL DO IT. PURELY AS A LARK, OF COURSE...._

"Fine. We'll begin next week."

_NEXT WEEK? WHY THE DELAY?_

"I want to get in a good supply of stories," I said, and got up,
picking up the Rigel IV manuscript. The machine was silent so I made a
dash for the door.
