
Matter of fact, they threw the book at the old boy. But not until a
thorough investigation was made, and not until several hundred outraged
members of every morals, anti-delinquency and anti-vice committee in
town had carefully checked and gasped over all the collected evidence.
Never in the history of the city had there been such a hue and a cry
aroused for the punishment of an offender.

So, Nathanial Evergood--evil and obscene as ever--got five years for
possession of pornography, indecent exposure and other charges. In the
words of the presiding jurist at the climax of the spectacular trial,
"Such a sentence is far too lenient a punishment for a crime of such
enormity."

And, to this very day, there rests in the files of the local
constabulary, the voluminous collection of Nathanial Evergood,
occupying fourteen huge, well-worn cabinets, and always on display
for the indignant and affronted eyes of any anti-sin committeeman who
wishes to examine it.

Also taken as evidence was Nathanial's wonderful prismatic lens and his
marvelous glasses. Anytime you're by the station house, drop into the
chief's office and, there in the open cabinet opposite his desk, you
can see the venal objects. Now though, the lenses are pretty scratched
and worn, but they're still the same two inventions of that ingenious,
but evil and obscene old man, Nathanial Evergood, No. 5-049,870.

And not that it makes much difference since the case is long past and
closed, but it might be interesting to point out that the chief is
often seen at beauty contests and fashion shows, wearing thick-lensed
glasses, which, he explains, the optometrist prescribed for his failing
sight. And I don't know if it's true or not, but they say the chief is
also the biggest customer the local camera shops have for a certain
product called Real-lifecolor film.

Not that it makes much difference now. Nathanial Evergood is serving
his sentence out, evil and obscene as ever, and the case is long past
and closed.