
He looked up and smiled as confidently as he could. "I'll be glad
to take your case, Mr. Radcliffe. Of course you want me to spare no
expenses," he added hopefully. At Radcliffe's harassed nod, he relaxed.

Next came the most dangerous part of the job. It was a part which had
eliminated several competent detectives from their jobs--the Probe
phase. This involved plunging into the subject's mind, and sorting out
relevant details which could furnish extra clues. Several Probers had
got themselves trapped in the subject's mind, unable to get out because
of a mental block or insanity.

It might, however, be unnecessary. He flashed a thought to the girl in
the adjoining room: **Sal, should I give him the H-R treatment?**

Answer: **Emphatically! He's hiding something. Not intentionally, but
it needs to be uncovered. A superficial scanning of the preconscious
doesn't get the job done.**

Keller sighed. The Probe (also called the H-R treatment, because a
certain amount of hypnotism was involved) was trying on not only the
subject but also the scanner. He said:

"Now, Mr. Radcliffe, I'm going to go into your subconscious mind and
get your impressions of last night. I want you to concentrate on ...
let's say ... the moment when you saw your wife." He shut off all of
his five senses, and took the plunge.

The image formed:

Shrieking terror. A tinge of ozone in the air. The Creature creeping
up from behind. A beheaded teddy bear lying full length on the floor.
A hole in the air near the door, colored red. Floating demon--where?
Nonononono! The Creature bending over him. Terror--heat. No! THE MAN
WHO FLEW. Melting walls. The door (now violet) disintegrating. The
teddy bear shriveling now--turns into a snake--

He emerged.

Before he could take full control of his body, a thought came:

**Rick? How did you come out?**

He flashed her the image. **Lousy. I can't get a true
impression-picture to save my life. Just a lousy nightmare,
fantasy-symbolism deal. But I did get something out of that mess. I'll
let you know about it as soon as I verify it.**
