
To Radcliffe, since the time when Keller had stopped talking until
right now, as Keller opened his eyes and frowned in thought, no
time had elapsed. In actuality, the time taken was one and one-half
microseconds.

Keller flashed: **Sally, tune in on this conversation, please.**

"Radcliffe," he said slowly, "When did you lose your sight?"

The other man sat up rigidly, then relaxed.

"How did you find out? Did you scan it?"

"No. When I was receiving your impressions, I caught an idea of melting
walls. Then there were nameless creatures and demons floating around. I
examined your senses when I came out, and saw that you were blind. What
is it--sort of a sight perception-tuning sense?"

Radcliffe nodded. "I can sense everything except colors. Everything
seems black, white and gray to me." He paused wearily. "Otherwise,
there's no difference. No one else knew about it. Not even my wife."

Keller nodded. "Now, let's try it again. Concentrate on the moment when
you entered here and saw me for the first time."

He flashed a thought to Sally. **Those Creatures were his fear of the
unknown. He's got a lot of fright in there. Probably afraid that the
killer would jump out at him from some shadowy corner. I don't quite
see how he could visualize different colors, having never seen them
before--but that's probably my interpretation of them. Here goes.**

The image:

Heat. Light. The teddy bear rising up again. Fear. THE MAN WHO FLEW.
The snake again--coiling--striking--missing. Fleeing. Dying. Melting
walls. Voices around him--laughing--shrieking. Colors of the rainbow.
The creature dying--dead--dissolving. No more....

Voices again. Talking to him. Telling him--what? His life flashing
before him--stopping. His brain--_undressing_? Hole in the air
at--the desk? Fear. THE MAN WHO FLEW. Fear-terror-hate-revenge ...
determination....

**Sally? Did you catch all that mess?**

**Unfortunately.**

**Something's wrong, Sally. I should be seeing something akin to the
actual events through his eyes. Instead all I get is this meaningless
stuff--unless--oh, God, now I see!** Pause. **I wonder who the Man Who
Flew is?**

**You've got me. And how about the dissolving creature?**

**That shows his confidence in having someone to tell his story to. All
his unknown fear is vanishing.**

**And then there's the hole in the air.**

**Yeah. I think I'll surface again, and try some straight questions on
him.**
