

"Take her away, into the sun," the doctors said.

She herself was sceptical of the sun, but she permitted herself to be
carried away, with her child, and a nurse, and her mother, over the sea.

The ship sailed at midnight. And for two hours her husband stayed with
her, while the child was put to bed, and the passengers came on board.
It was a black night, the Hudson swayed with heavy blackness, shaken
over with spilled dribbles of light. She leaned on the rail, and looking
down thought: This is the sea; it is deeper than one imagines, and
fuller of memories. At that moment the sea seemed to heave like the
serpent of chaos that has lived for ever.

"These partings are no good, you know," her husband was saying, at her
side. "They're no good. I don't like them."

His tone was full of apprehension, misgiving, and there was a certain
note of clinging to the last straw of hope.

"No, neither do I," she responded in a flat voice.

She remembered how bitterly they had wanted to get away from one
another, he and she. The emotion of parting gave a slight tug at her
emotions, but only caused the iron that had gone into her soul to gore
deeper.

So, they looked at their sleeping son, and the father's eyes were wet.
But it is not the wetting of the eyes which counts, it is the deep iron
rhythm of habit, the year-long, life-long habits; the deep-set stroke of
power.

And in their two lives, the stroke of power was hostile, his and hers.
Like two engines running at variance, they shattered one another.

"All ashore! All ashore!"

"Maurice, you must go!"

And she thought to herself: For him it is _All ashore_! For me it is
_Out to sea_!

Well, he waved his hanky on the midnight dreariness of the pier, as the
boat inched away; one among a crowd. One among a crowd! _C'est Ã§a_!

The ferry-boats, like great dishes piled with rows of lights, were still
slanting across the Hudson. That black mouth must be the Lackawanna
Station.

The ship ebbed on, the Hudson seemed interminable. But at last they were
round the bend, and there was the poor harvest of lights, at the
Battery. Liberty flung up her torch in a tantrum. There was the wash of
the sea.

And though the Atlantic was grey as lava, she did come at last into the
sun. Even she had a house above the bluest of seas, with a vast garden,
or vineyard, all vines and olives dropping steeply, terrace after
terrace, to the strip of coast-plain; and the garden full of secret
places, deep groves of lemon far down in the cleft of earth, and hidden,
pure green reservoirs of water; then a spring issuing out of a little
cavern, where the old Sicules had drunk before the Greeks came; and a
grey goat bleating, stabled in an ancient tomb, with all the niches
empty. There was the scent of mimosa, and beyond, the snow of the
volcano.

She saw it all, and in a measure it was soothing. But it was all
external. She didn't really care about it. She was herself, just the
same, with all her anger and frustration inside her, and her incapacity
to feel anything real. The child irritated her, and preyed on her peace
of mind. She felt so horribly, ghastly responsible for him: as if she
must be responsible for every breath he drew. And that was torture to
her, to the child, and to everybody else concerned.

"You know, Juliet, the doctor told you to lie in the sun, without your
clothes. Why don't you?" said her mother.

"When I am fit to do so, I will. Do you want to kill me?" Juliet flew at
her.

"To kill you, no! Only to do you good."

"For God's sake, leave off wanting to do me good."

The mother at last was so hurt and incensed, she departed.

The sea went white--and then invisible. Pouring rain fell. It was cold,
in the house built for the sun.

Again a morning when the sun lifted himself naked and molten, sparkling
over the sea's rim. The house faced south-west, Juliet lay in her bed
and watched him rise, it was as if she had never seen the sun rise
before. She had never seen the naked sun stand up pure upon the
sea-line, shaking the night off himself.

So the desire sprang secretly in her, to go naked in the sun. She
cherished her desire like a secret.

But she wanted to go away from the house--away from people. And it is
not easy, in a country where every olive tree has eyes, and every slope
is seen from afar, to go hidden.

But she found a place: a rocky bluff, shoved out to the sea and sun and
overgrown with large cactus, the flat-leaved cactus called prickly pear.
Out of this blue-grey knoll of cactus rose one cypress tree, with a
pallid, thick trunk, and a tip that leaned over, flexible, up in the
blue. It stood like a guardian looking to sea; or a low, silvery candle
whose huge flame was darkness against light: earth sending up her proud
tongue of gloom.

Juliet sat down by the cypress tree, and took off her clothes. The
contorted cactus made a forest, hideous yet fascinating, about her. She
sat and offered her bosom to the sun, sighing, even now, with a certain
hard pain, against the cruelty of having to give herself.

But the sun marched in blue heaven and sent down his rays as he went.
She felt the soft air of the sea on her breasts, that seemed as if they
would never ripen. But she hardly felt the sun. Fruits that would wither
and not mature, her breasts.

Soon, however, she felt the sun inside them, warmer than ever love had
been, warmer than milk or the hands of her baby. At last, at last her
breasts were like long white grapes in the hot sun.

She slid off all her clothes and lay naked in the sun, and as she lay
she looked up through her fingers at the central sun, his blue pulsing
roundness, whose outer edges streamed brilliance. Pulsing with
marvellous blue, and olive, and streaming white fire from his edges, the
sun! He faced down to her with his look of blue fire, and enveloped her
breasts and her face, her throat, her tired belly, her knees, her thighs
and her feet.

She lay with shut eyes, the colour of rosy flame through her lids. It
was too much. She reached and put leaves over her eyes. Then she lay
again, like a long white gourd in the sun, that must ripen to gold.

She could feel the sun penetrating even into her bones; nay, further,
even into her emotions and her thoughts. The dark tensions of her
emotion began to give way, the cold dark clots of her thoughts began to
dissolve. She was beginning to feel warm right through. Turning over,
she let her shoulders dissolve in the sun, her loins, the backs of her
thighs, even her heels. And she lay half stunned with wonder at the
thing that was happening to her. Her weary, chilled heart was melting,
and in melting, evaporating.

When she was dressed again she lay once more and looked up at the
cypress tree, whose crest, a flexible filament, fell this way and that
in the breeze. Meanwhile, she was conscious of the great sun roaming in
heaven.

So, dazed, she went home, only half-seeing, sun-blinded and sun-dazed.
And her blindness was like a richness to her, and her dim, warm, heavy
half-consciousness was like wealth.

"Mummy! Mummy!" her child came running towards her, calling in that
peculiar bird-like little anguish of want, always wanting her. She was
surprised that her drowsed heart for once felt none of the anxious
love-anguish in return. She caught the child up in her arms, but she
thought: He should not be such a lump! If he were in the sun, he would
spring up.

She resented, rather, his little hands clutching at her, especially her
neck. She pulled her throat away. She did not want to be touched. She
put the child gently down.

"Run!" she said. "Run in the sun!"

And there and then she took off his clothes and set him naked on the
warm terrace.

"Play in the sun!" she said.

He was frightened and wanted to cry. But she, in the warm indolence of
her body, and the complete indifference of her heart, rolled him an
orange across the red tiles, and with his soft, unformed little body he
toddled after it. Then immediately he had it, he dropped it because it
felt strange against his flesh. And he looked back at her, querulous,
wrinkling his face to cry, frightened because he was stark.

"Bring me the orange," she said, amazed at her own deep indifference to
his trepidation. "Bring Mummy the orange.

"He shall not grow up like his father," she said to herself. "Like a
worm that the sun has never seen."



