

She had had the child so much on her mind, in a torment of
responsibility, as if, having borne him, she had to answer for his whole
existence. Even if his nose were running, it had been repulsive and a
goad in her vitals, as if she must say to herself: Look at the thing you
brought forth!

Now a change took place. She was no longer vitally interested in the
child, she took the strain of her anxiety and her will from off him. And
he thrived all the more for it.

She was thinking inside herself, of the sun in his splendour, and her
mating with him. Her life was now a whole ritual. She lay always awake,
before dawn, watching for the grey to colour to pale gold, to know if
clouds lay on the sea's edge. Her joy was when he rose all molten in his
nakedness, and threw off blue-white fire, into the tender heaven.

But sometimes he came ruddy, like a big, shy creature. And sometimes
slow and crimson red, with a look of anger, slowly pushing and
shouldering. Sometimes again she could not see him, only the level cloud
threw down gold and scarlet from above, as he moved behind the wall.

She was fortunate. Weeks went by, and though the dawn was sometimes
clouded, and afternoon was sometimes grey, never a day passed sunless,
and most days, winter though it was, streamed radiant. The thin little
wild crocuses came up mauve and striped, the wild narcissi hung their
winter stars.

Every day she went down to the cypress tree, among the cactus grove on
the knoll with yellowish cliffs at the foot. She was wiser and subtler
now, wearing only a dove-grey wrapper, and sandals. So that in an
instant, in any hidden niche, she was naked to the sun. And the moment
she was covered again she was grey and invisible.

Every day, in the morning towards noon, she lay at the foot of the
powerful, silver-pawed cypress tree, while the sun rode jovial in
heaven. By now she knew the sun in every thread of her body, there was
not a cold shadow left. And her heart, that anxious, straining heart,
had disappeared altogether, like a flower that falls in the sun, and
leaves only a ripe seed-case.

She knew the sun in heaven, blue-molten with his white fire edges,
throwing off fire. And though he shone on all the world, when she lay
unclothed he focussed on her. It was one of the wonders of the sun, he
could shine on a million people and still be the radiant, splendid,
unique sun, focussed on her alone.

With her knowledge of the sun, and her conviction that the sun _knew_
her, in the cosmic carnal sense of the word, came over her a feeling of
detachment from people, and a certain contempt for human beings
altogether. They were so un-elemental, so unsunned. They were so like
graveyard worms.

Even the peasants passing up the rocky, ancient little road with their
donkeys, sun-blackened as they were, were not sunned right through.
There was a little soft white core of fear, like a snail in a shell,
where the soul of the man cowered in fear of death, and in fear of the
natural blaze of life. He dared not quite emerge: always innerly cowed.
All men were like that.

Why admit men!

With her indifference to people, to men, she was not now so cautious
about being unseen. She had told Marinina, who went shopping for her in
the village, that the doctor had ordered sun-baths. Let that suffice.

Marinina was a woman over sixty, tall, thin, erect, with curling dark
grey hair, and dark grey eyes that had the shrewdness of thousands of
years in them, with the laugh that underlies all long experience.
Tragedy is lack of experience.

"It must be beautiful to go unclothed in the sun," said Marinina, with a
shrewd laugh in her eyes, as she looked keenly at the other woman.
Juliet's fair, bobbed hair curled in a little cloud at her temple.
Marinina was a woman of Magna Gr√¶cia, and had far memories. She looked
again at Juliet. "But you have to be beautiful yourself, if you're not
going to give offence to the sun? Isn't it so?" she added, with that
queer, breathless little laugh of the women of the past.

"Who knows if I am beautiful!" said Juliet.

But beautiful or not, she felt that, by the sun she was appreciated.
Which is the same.

When, out of the sun at noon, sometimes she stole down over the rocks
and past the cliff-edge, down to the deep gully where the lemons hung in
cool eternal shadow; and in the silence slipped off her wrapper to wash
herself quickly at one of the deep, clear green basins, she would
notice, in the bare green twilight under the lemon leaves, that all her
body was rosy, rosy and turning to gold. She was like another person.
She was another person.

So she remembered that the Greeks had said, a white, unsunned body was
fishy and unhealthy.

And she would rub a little olive oil in her skin, and wander a moment in
the dark underworld of the lemons, balancing a lemon flower in her
navel, laughing to herself. There was just a chance some peasant might
see her. But if he did he would be more afraid of her than she of him.
She knew the white core of fear in the clothed bodies of men.

She knew it even in her little son. How he mistrusted her, now that she
laughed at him, with the sun in her face! She insisted on his toddling
naked in the sunshine, every day. And now his little body was pink too,
his blond hair was pushed thick from his brow, his cheeks had a
pomegranate scarlet, in the delicate gold of the sunny skin. He was
bonny and healthy, and the servants, loving his red and gold and blue,
called him an angel from heaven.

But he mistrusted his mother: she laughed at him. And she saw in his
wide blue eyes, under the little frown, that centre of fear, misgiving,
which she believed was at the centre of all male eyes, now. She called
it fear of the sun.

"He fears the sun," she would say to herself, looking down into the eyes
of the child.

And as she watched him toddling, swaying, tumbling in the sunshine,
making his little, bird-like noises, she saw that he held himself tight
and hidden from the sun, inside himself. His spirit was like a snail in
a shell, in a damp, cold crevice inside himself. It made her think of
his father. She wished she could make him come forth, break out in a
gesture of recklessness and salutation.

She determined to take him with her, down to the cypress tree among the
cactus. She would have to watch him, because of the thorns. But surely
in that place he would come forth from that little shell, deep inside
him. That little civilised tension would disappear off his brow.

She spread a rug for him and sat him down. Then she slid off her wrapper
and lay down herself, watching a hawk high in the blue, and the tip of
the cypress hanging over.

The boy played with stones on the rug. When he got up to toddle away,
she sat up too. He turned and looked at her. Almost, from his blue eyes,
it was the challenging, warm look of the true male. And he was handsome,
with the scarlet in the golden blond of his skin. He was not really
white. His skin was gold-dusky.

"Mind the thorns, darling," she said.

"Thorns!" re-echoed the child, in a birdy chirp, still looking at her
over his shoulder, like some naked cherub in a picture, doubtful.

"Nasty prickly thorns."

"'Ickly thorns!"

He staggered in his little sandals over the stones, pulling at the dry
wild mint. She was quick as a serpent, leaping to him, when he was going
to fall against the prickles. It surprised even herself. "What a wild
cat I am, really!" she said to herself.

She brought him every day, when the sun shone, to the cypress tree.

"Come!" she said. "Let us go to the cypress tree."

And if there was a cloudy day, with the tramontana blowing, so that she
could not go down, the child would chirp incessantly: "Cypress tree!
Cypress tree!"

He missed it as much as she did.

It was not just taking sunbaths. It was much more than that. Something
deep inside her unfolded and relaxed, and she was given. By some
mysterious power inside her, deeper than her known consciousness and
will, she was put into connection with the sun, and the stream flowed of
itself, from her womb. She herself, her conscious self, was secondary, a
secondary person, almost an onlooker. The true Juliet was this dark flow
from her deep body to the sun.

She had always been mistress of herself, aware of what she was doing,
and held tense for her own power. Now she felt inside her quite another
sort of power, something greater than herself, flowing by itself. Now
she was vague, but she had a power beyond herself.



