
"You aren't looking well, Amy," Captain Bjornson said three or four
weeks later. He looked at her with the critical attention of an old
friend. "You've got on a lot of cosmi-lac, but you still look peaked.
What's the matter, worried about Bob? Ships don't get hurt in meteor
swarms any more." He looked down at his grafted foot reminiscently.
"Not like it was when _I_ was a third mate."

Amy Dinsmore shook her head. She picked up one of the brightly-colored
hexagons--they had been playing a desultory game of Maroola in the airy
coolness of the side stoa--and fiddled with it.

"I haven't been sleeping well," she confessed at last. "I've had such
unpleasant dreams. Horrid things."

"What about?" Bjornson asked. "That blasted plant? Honestly, Amy, it
looks like some kind of spider to me."

"No! I don't know why you can't leave my Venusian Rambler alone! Robert
told me it was a very valuable plant, rare even in its own habitat.
It's doing so nicely, too. A spider! I wish you'd stop trying to spoil
it for me."

"I'm sorry," Bjornson apologized. "Forget it. Go on, tell me about your
dreams."

"Well, on Tuesday--or was it Wednesday?--no, it must have been Tuesday
because that was the day after I flew over to Hartford--I was down by
the hothouse and I found the most unpleasant thing beside the path."
She shuddered. "I've been dreaming about it ever since."

"What was it?" Bjornson urged.

"Oh, a--I guess it must have been a rabbit once. One of the wild ones.
Only it was nothing except some fur and some bones. Not decayed,
Hjalmar, you understand, just gone. I can't imagine what had happened
to it."

"Better see a mental hygienist," the Captain advised after a pause.
"Nightmares can be very serious."

"I suppose so. I really dread going to sleep."
