
Sitting outside on the ground beside the hothouse afterward, her
forehead on her hands, feeling sick and faint, Amy had an idea. At
first she pushed it from her; it was far-fetched, silly, even a little
repulsive.

But was it so silly after all? And as to being unpleasant, well, bollo
meat commanded enormous prices in the market and, from everything she'd
ever heard, the bollo was the very reverse of a fastidious feeder. Even
pigs certainly weren't dainty in their eating habits. If she parboiled
it in several waters and then braised it slowly, with a hint of ginger
in the sauce.... Well, after all, why not?

Amy, the modeling knife in her hand, went into the hothouse again....

... "Gee, Aunt Amy, this meat's good," Robert said. He was talking with
his mouth full. "I've eaten indigenous chow on three planets--four, if
you call the stuff they serve you on Uranus food--and it's my opinion
that there isn't a better cook anywhere in the system than you. Fact.
How do you do it, anyhow?"

Amy Dinsmore lowered her eyes. She could feel herself blushing through
her cosmi-lac. "Oh ... thank you, Robert."

"She sure is, Bob," Hjalmar Bjornson said expansively. "That gravy!
She's the best cook on Terra all the time, but when you're in port she
gets sort of inspired."

"What kind of meat is this, though, Amy? And could I have some more?"

"Of course," Amy said. She refilled Hjamar's plate. "It's something new
I found in the big auto-market in the city," she said vaguely.

"By the way, Aunt Amy," Bob said, laying down his fork, "after I sent
you that plant I heard it was supposed to be carnivorous. I forgot to
mention it in my last 'gram. You didn't get into any trouble with it,
did you?"

"No, it died," Amy said smoothly. "I had to throw it out. Too bad." She
brightened. "Pass your plate, Robert dear," she said.