
She stood silent, her mouth open about the same distance as
Feigelson's. Winstead looked about for a local clock, and snatched up
one of the sheets strewn about the counter. A departure time listed
upon it made him swear. He leaped to Carole's phone, switching on sound
and screen with one swipe of his thumb.

The blonde advanced a timid step, to read the card bearing Wilfie's
appointment.

"Robert Winstead Lewis, Terra ... President, Interstellar Travel
Agency...."

"Winstead" was shouting at a face on the phone screen.

"You tell them who I am!" he demanded, holding up another of his cards
to the scanner. "They'll manage to hold the ship three minutes until we
reach her!"

He switched off, mopping his forehead with the back of his hand, and
started around the counter. Carole swayed weakly against Feigelson's
supporting arm.

"Now, then!" snapped Winstead. "This branch will be checked in the near
future, Evans. I trust that you are the sort of man who can show a firm
hand, should he return home to discover a star traveler in his bedroom."

He smacked the flat of his own hand significantly upon the counter,
staring at Carole between the eyes. Wilfie nodded thoughtfully.

Robert Winstead Lewis flagged down an unwary porter driving by on an
empty baggage truck.

"Bring the bags, Feigelson!" he commanded, hopping aboard and seizing
the controls. "As far as New Ceres, anyhow, we'll be going first-class!"

Picking up speed, the baggage truck squealed around a turn and headed
for an exit to the spaceport. The porter looked back with a horrified
expression, the pink gown fluttered beside the orange suit one last
time, and they disappeared through the portal.

The air about the disorganized counter and reorganized agents continued
to vibrate for some minutes.

Finally, the distant roar of a ship lifting for space penetrated to
restore a sense of relative peace.



