
His mother would not like it. She would feel the difference in him, as
much as if he had read one of the books she kept away from him, books
that were supposed to be for adults only. The difference would hurt
her. He was being bad, like eating between meals. But to know what
grownups knew....

He tightened his fists and looked down at the grass. "I'll play it
some more."

The young man smiled, still pale and holding half his feelings back
behind a dam. _Then mesh with me a moment. Let me in._

He was in with the thought, feeling Ronny's confused consent,
reassuring him by not thinking or looking around inside while sending
out a single call, _Purcell, Doc_, that found the combination key to
Ronny's guarded yesterdays and last nights and ten minutes agos.
_Ronny, I'll set that door, Purcell's memories, open for you. You
can't close it, but feel like this about it_--and he planted in a
strong set, _questioning, cool, open, a feeling of absorbing without
words ... it will give information when you need it, like a
dictionary._

The grownup straightened away from the fence, preparing to walk off.
Behind a dam pressed grief and anger for the death of the man he
called Purcell.

"And any time you want to _be_ the old chief, at any age he lived,
just make believe you are him."

Grief and anger pressed more strongly against the dam, and the man
turned and left rapidly, letting his thoughts flicker and scatter
through private memories that Ronny did not share, that no one shared,
breaking thought contact with everyone so that the man could be alone
in his own mind to have his feelings in private.
