
Samuel Vesey drummed on his desk with nervous fingers. His dark
countenance was already haggard, the eyes sunken and feverish.

"Yes," he said. "Yes, it was news to me."

Jahangir put down the counter. The office was very quiet for a while.

"Don't spread the word," said Vesey. "We'll confine it to the
engineers. Conditions are bad enough without a riot breaking loose. We
can take several days of this radiation without harm, but you know how
some people are about it."

"You've not been very candid so far," snapped Catherine. "Just exactly
what have you learned?"

Jahangir shrugged. There was a white frost rimming his beard. "There've
been no bulletins because there's no news," he replied. "We checked the
pile. It's still putting out as it should. The neutron flux density is
the same as ever. It's the gas there and in our pipes which has gotten
cold and ... radioactive."

"Have you looked directly in the pile room--actually entered?" demanded
Alem√°n.

Jahangir lifted his shoulders again. "My dear old chap," he murmured.
"At a temperature of 500 and a pressure of 600?" After a moment, he
frowned. "I do have some men modifying a trac so it could be driven
in there for a short time. But I don't expect to find anything. It's
mostly to keep them busy."

"How about the pipes, then?" asked Gilchrist.

"Internal gas pressure and velocity of circulation is just about what
it always has been. According to the meters, anyway, which I don't
think are lying. I don't want to block off a section and rip it out
except as a last resort. It would just be wasted effort, I'm sure."
Jahangir shook his turbanned head. "No, this is some phenomenon which
we'll have to think our way through, not bull through."

Vesey nodded curtly. "I suggest you three go back to the common rooms,"
he said. "We'll be shunting all the power to food and oxy soon. If you
have any further suggestions, pass them on ... otherwise, sit tight."

It was dismissal.
