
Bork's lawyer advised the court that no defense would be presented.
The prosecutor exhorted the jury that its duty was plain. The judge
gave final instructions, and the jury filed out. It returned in four
minutes.

"Gentlemen of the jury, have you reached a verdict in such a
gratifyingly short space of time?" the judge asked, beaming.

The foreman arose. "We have, your honor."

"Just for the record, what is your verdict?" twinkled the judge.

"Not guilty, your honor."

The prosecutor jumped up. "Why, that can't be!" he shouted. "It's a
_prima facie_ case, unrefuted and therefore patent. What else do you
_need_?"

"Yeah!" agreed the judge, outraged.

"We need some plain, old-fashioned evidence of a crime," answered the
juryman, unperturbed.

"Old-fashioned?" The fuming prosecutor rejected the heresy, pushing
it away from him with both hands. "This is all unscientific
now," he warned. "The Very Complicated Monstrous Proximilator
machine--especially the new model with the forty-three meters which
replaces the old thirty-nine meter machine--is the _ne plus ultra_ of
justice!"

"Oh, no, it isn't," dissented the foreman. "Did your evidence place
the deadly weapon in the defendant's hand? Did your evidence even tend
to show the holes in the woman's chest were _made_ by a gun? She said
nothing about a weapon, if you will recall. She merely said, 'Why are
you pointing that at me, Bork? What are you going to do, Bork?'"

"But he had plenty of motive," pleaded the prosecutor.

"Oh, we'll go along with _that_," assented the foreman.

"And the defendant admitted it!" pursued the prosecutor triumphantly.

The foreman shook his head. "Admissions don't count. The judge said so
himself."

"So even though you know he's guilty," the prosecutor said hollowly,
"you're going to let him go?"

"That's right," agreed the foreman happily, and cleared his throat.
"We, the jury," he pronounced, "find this fellow innocent of what he
did!"



