
The next morning we left the ship, clad in thermosuits, armed to the
teeth--at least I was. I carried a subforce gun and a neural disruptor;
Donaldson scornfully packed only the prescribed blaster.

We crossed the flat plain together, without speaking. I led the way,
looking back nervously every few paces, but there was nothing behind me
but Donaldson. We made a complete reconnaissance of the area, picked
up a few interesting outlying fossils--Donaldson thought they might be
relics of the dead race of Pollux V--and reached the bare face of the
mountain without any difficulties.

"Well?" Donaldson asked sneeringly. "Where's your monster this time? He
afraid of me?"

"So it didn't show up," I snapped. "That doesn't prove anything. For
all we know it might jump us on the way back to the ship."

"So it might. But I doubt it. For one thing, I've been checking
footprints in the sand. I've counted six tracks--one each for you,
Feld, Hamner, Laurence, Forster, and Mickens. Unfortunately, that
doesn't leave any for your monster. There's no sign of him anywhere."

I was a little startled by that. I glanced around. "You're right," I
admitted, frowning. Licking dry lips, I said, "There ought to be some
trace--unless the wind's covered it."

"The wind hasn't fully covered the traces of you six yet," Donaldson
pointed out with obstinate logic. "Why should it obliterate only those
of your nemesis?"

I scowled, but said nothing. Donaldson was right again--but I still
found it hard to convince myself that what we had seen was only an
illusion.

On the way back to the ship, I formulated all sorts of theories to
explain the creature. It was a monster out of subspace, generated by
etheric force; it was a radiation-creature without tangible physical
body; it was--

I had half a dozen conjectures, each as unlikely as the next. But we
returned to the ship safely, without any trouble whatever. I was sure
of one thing: the creature was real, no matter what hell-void had
spawned it.
