
He awoke a little groggily, looked around the cell, then jumped
hastily out of his bunk. Usually he was awake before the bell rang.

Pete Karzer was coming back from the washstand. He looked over.

"You up, Graham?" he said in his whispery voice. "Hey, you know I'm
getting out this morning. Guess you'll want to swap blankets again,
huh?"

"That's right, too. No use turning in a good blanket, is there?"

"Don't make sense." Pete massaged the back of his neck.

"Never could figure that swap," he said. "Don't get me wrong, it was
real good, being able to sleep warm, but you caught me good when I
tried to swipe that blanket of yours. Ain't never seen a guy move so
quick. And I ain't so dumb I don't know when I'm licked." He grinned
ruefully.

"So I'm down, like I been hit with a singlejack. Then you go and hand
over a good blanket for that beat thing I been using. How come?"

Stan shrugged. "I told you," he said. "Where I come from, it's a lot
colder than it is here, so I don't need a blanket. I'd have offered a
swap sooner, but I didn't want to look like some greasy doormat."

"Wasn't no grease about that swap." Pete grinned and rubbed his neck
again. "I found out real quick who was the big man. Where'd you learn
that stuff anyway?"

"Oh, picked it up--here and there." Stan glanced down at the floor.

There would be no point in explaining the intensive close combat
training he'd been put through at school. Such training would make no
sense to his cellmates. To the good citizens of Kellonia, it would
seem horrifyingly illegal. He glanced up again.

"You know how it is," he went on. "A guy learns as he goes."

Big Carl Marlo swung his legs over the side of his bunk.

"Looks like you learned real good," he said. He examined Stan.

"Pete tells me about this deal. I kinda miss the action this time, but
Pete tells me he's got the blanket and he's all set to plug you good,
you should maybe try a hassle.

"Only all at once, you're on him. He feels a couple quick ones, then
he don't know nothing till next day. You can maybe do things like that
any time?"

Stan shrugged. "Guy never knows what he can do till he tries. I know a
few other tricks, if that's what you mean."

Marlo nodded. "Yeah. Know something, kid? Ain't no use you waste your
time being no fabricator nurse. You got a good profesh already, know
what I mean?"

Stan looked at him questioningly.

"Sure." Marlo nodded. "So you come here, like maybe you're a tourist,
see. But the joes get you and they bring you up here. Going to teach
you a trade--fabricator nurse, see. Only they don't know it but you're
one guy they don't have to teach, 'counta you got something better.
All you gotta do is find your way around."

"I have? Do you really think...."

"Sure. Look, there's a lot of antique big-timers around, see. These
old guys figure they need some guy can push the mugs. Pay real good,
too, and they couldn't care less you're a graduate. Maybe makes it
even better, see. You get in with one of those old guys, you got it
made. All legit, too. Oughta look into that, you get out."

Stan smiled. "The first day I was on this planet, they went through my
bags while I was out looking over the town. They found a paper knife
and a couple of textbooks." He shrugged.

"So I came back to the hotel and someone hit me with a flasher. I came
to in a cell." He glanced around.

"Somebody finally told me they'd given me two to five years for
carrying a dangerous weapon and subversive literature. Now what would
I get if I went out and really messed some guy up?"

Marlo waved a hand carelessly.

"Depends on who you work for," he declared. "You got the right boss,
you get a bonus. Worse the guy's gaffed, the bigger the payoff, see?"

Stan reached for his bag of toilet articles.

"That's legitimate?"

"Sure." Mario smiled expansively. "Happens all the time. Even the big
outfits need musclers. Staffmen, see? Sorta keep production up.

"Lot of guys get real big jobs that way. Start out, they're Staff
Assistance Specialists, like they roust the mugs when they got to.
Then pretty quick, they're all dressed up fancy, running things. Real
good deal." He shrugged.

"Need a heavy man once in a while, even in my business. Like maybe
some guy's got a good pad, he doesn't want a lot of prowlers shaking
up the neighbors. You know, gets the law too close, and a guy can't
work so good with a lot of joes hanging around. Might even decide to
make a search, then where'd you be?" He spread his hands.

"But there's some Johnny Raw, keeps coming around. And maybe this is a
pretty rough boy, you can't get on him personal, see. So the only
answer, you get some good heavy guy to teach this ape some ethics.
Lotta staffmen pick up extra pins this way."

"I think I get the idea. But suppose the law gets into this deal?"

Marlo spread his hands. "Well, this is a civil case, see, so long as
the chump don't turn in his ticket. So, anything comes up, you put an
ambassador on the job. He talks to the determinators and the joes
don't worry you none. Just costs a little something, is all."

Pete looked up from his packing, a smile twisting his face.

"Only trouble, some of these big boys fall in love with their work.
This can get real troublesome, like I pick up this five to ten this
way.

"See, they get this chump a couple too many. So, comes morning, he's
still in the street. Real tough swinging a parole, too. I'm in here
since five years, remember? So I'm real careful where I get muscle any
more."

"Sounds interesting." Stan nodded thoughtfully.

"Great Space and all the little Nebulae," he said to himself. "What
kind of a planet is this? Nothing in the histories about this sort of
thing." He walked over to the washstand.

"Some day," he promised himself, "I'm going to get out of here. And
when I do, I'll set up camp by Guard Headquarters. And I'll needle
those big brains till they do something about this."

There was, he remembered, one organization that should be able to do
more than a little in a case like this. He smiled to himself ruefully
as he thought of the almost legendary stories he had heard about the
Federation's Special Corps for Investigation.

As he remembered the stories, though, corpsmen seemed to appear from
nowhere when there was serious trouble. No one ever seemed to call
them in. No one even knew how to get in touch with them. He shrugged.

The men of the Special Corps, he remembered, were reputed to be
something in the superhuman line.

For a large part of his life, he had dreamed of working with them, but
he had been unable to find any way of so much as applying for
membership in their select group. So, he'd done the next best thing.
He'd gone into the Stellar Guard. And he'd lasted only a little more
than three years.

Somehow, he'd taken it from there. He was still a little hazy as to
how he'd managed to land in prison on Kell's planet. It had been a
mere stopover.

There had been no trial. Obviously, they had searched his luggage at
the hotel, but there had been no discussion. He'd simply been beamed
into unconsciousness.

After he'd gotten to Opertal, someone had told him the length of his
sentence and they'd assigned him to the prison machine shop, to learn
a useful trade and the duties of a citizen of Kellonia.

He smiled wryly. They had taught him machinery. And they'd introduced
him to their culture. The trade was good. The culture--?
