
It was the beginning. The date of that beginning is not known. Alice
MacNare believes it was early in May, but more probably it was in
April. There was no time to keep notes. In fact, there was no longer a
research project nor any thought of one. Instead, there was Adam, the
person. At least, to Alice he became that, completely. Perhaps, also,
to Dr. MacNare.

Dr. MacNare quite often stood behind Adam where he could watch the rat
body through the transparent skull case while Alice engaged Adam's
attention. Alice did the same, at times, but she finally refused to
do so any more. The sight of Adam the rat, his body held in a net
attached to the frame, his head covered by the helmet, his four legs
moving independently of one another with little semblance of walking or
running motion nor even of co√∂rdination, but with swift darting motions
and pauses pregnant with meaning, brought back to Alice the old feeling
of vague fear, and a tremendous surge of pity for Adam that made her
want to cry.

Slowly, subtly, Adam's rat body became to Alice a pure brain, and his
legs four nerve ganglia. A brain covered with short white fur; and when
she took him out of his harness under opiate to bathe him, she bathed
him as gently and carefully as any brain surgeon sponging a cortical
surface.

Once started, Adam's mental development progressed rapidly. Dr. MacNare
began making notes again on June 2, 1957, just ten days before the end,
and it is to these notes that we go for an insight into Adam's mind.

On June 4th Dr. MacNare wrote, "I am of the opinion that Adam will
never develop beyond the level of a moron, in the scale of human
standards. He would probably make a good factory worker or chauffeur,
in a year or two. But he is consciously aware of himself as Adam, he
thinks in words and simple sentences with an accurate understanding
of their meaning, and he is able to do new things from spoken
instructions. There is no question, therefore, but that he has an
integrated mind, entirely human in every respect."

On June 7th Dr. MacNare wrote, "Something is developing which I
hesitate to put down on paper--for a variety of reasons. Creating Adam
was a scientific experiment, nothing more than that. Both the premises
on which the project was based have been proven: that the principle
of verification is the main factor in learned response, and that,
given the proper conditions, some animals are capable of abstract
symbol systems and therefore of thinking with words to form meaningful
concepts.

"Nothing more was contemplated in the experiment. I stress this
because--Adam is becoming deeply religious--and before any mistaken
conclusions are drawn from this I will explain what caused this
development. It was an oversight of a type that is bound to happen in
any complex project.

"Alice's experimental data on the effects of opiates, and especially
the data on increasing the dose to offset growing tolerance, were
based on observation of the subject alone, without any knowledge of
the mental aspects of increased tolerance--which would of course be
impossible except with human subjects.

"Unknown to us, Adam has been becoming partly conscious during his
bath. Just conscious enough to be vaguely aware of certain sensations,
and to remember them afterward. Few, if any, of these half remembered
sensations are such that he can fit them into the pattern of his waking
reality.

"The one that has had the most pronounced influence on him is, to quote
him, 'Feel clean inside. Feel good.' Quite obviously this sensation is
caused by his bath.

"With it is a distinct feeling of disembodiment, of being--and these
are his own words--'outside my body'! This, of course, is an accurate
realization, because to him the robot is his body, and he knows nothing
of the existence of his actual, living, rat body.

"In addition to these two effects, there is a third one. A feeling of
walking, and sometimes of floating, of stumbling over things he can't
see, of talking, of being talked to by disembodied voices.

"The explanation of this is also obvious. When he is being bathed his
legs are moved about. Any movement of a leg is to him either a spoken
sound or a movement of some part of his robot body. Any movement of his
right front leg, for example, tells his mind that he is making a sound.
But, since his leg is not connected to the sound system of his robot
body, his ears bring no physical verification of the sound. The mental
anticipation of that verification then becomes a disembodied voice to
him.

"The end result of all this is that Adam is becoming convinced that
there is a hidden side of things (which there is), and that it is
supernatural (which it is, _in the framework of his orientation_).

"What we are going to have to do is make sure he is completely
unconscious before taking him out and bathing him. His mental health is
far more important than exploring the interesting avenues opened up by
this unforeseen development.

"I do intend, however, to make one simple test, while he is fully
awake, before dropping this avenue of investigation."

Dr. MacNare does not state in his notes what this test was to be: but
his wife says that it probably refers to the time when he pinched
Adam's tail and Adam complained of a sudden, violent headache. This
transference is the one well known to doctors. Unoriented pain in the
human body manifests itself as a "headache," when the source of the
pain is actually the stomach, or the liver, or any one of a hundred
spots in the body.

The last notes made by Dr. MacNare were those of June 11, 1957, and
are unimportant except for the date. We return, therefore, to actual
events, so far as they can be reconstructed.

We have said little or nothing about Dr. MacNare's life at the
university after embarking on the research project, nor of the social
life of the MacNares. As conspirators, they had kept up their social
life to avoid any possibility of the board getting curious about any
radical change in Dr. MacNare's habits; but as time went on both Dr.
MacNare and his wife became so engrossed in their project that only
with the greatest reluctance did they go anywhere.

The annual faculty party at Professor Long's on June 12th was something
they could not evade. Not to have gone would have been almost
tantamount to a resignation from the university.

"Besides," Alice had said when they discussed the matter in May, "isn't
it about time to do a little hinting that you have something up your
sleeve?"

"I don't know, Alice," Dr. MacNare had said. Then a smile quirked his
lips and he said, "I wouldn't mind telling off Veerhof. I've never
gotten over his deciding something was impossible without enough data
to pass judgment." He frowned. "We are going to have to let the world
know about Adam pretty soon, aren't we? That's something I haven't
thought about. But not yet. Next fall will be time enough."
