
There isn't much more to tell. It is known that Tony and Bill arrived
at their respective homes, saying nothing of what had happened. Only
later did they come forward and admit their share in the night's events.

Joe and Alice MacNare arrived home from the party at Professor Long's
at twelve thirty, finding the front door wide open, the lights on in
the living room, and the television on.

Sensing that something was wrong, Alice hurried to her son's room and
discovered he wasn't there. While she was doing that, Joe shut the
front door and turned off the television.

Alice returned to the living room, eyes round with alarm, and said,
"Paul's not in his room!"

"Adam!" Joe croaked, and rushed into the hallway, with Alice following
more slowly.

She reached the open door of the study in time to see the robot figure
pounce on Joe and fasten its metal fingers about his throat, crushing
vertebrae and flesh alike.

Oblivious to her own danger, she rushed to rescue her already dead
husband, but the metal fingers were inflexible. Belatedly she abandoned
the attempt and ran into the hallway to the phone.

When the police arrived, they found her slumped against the wall in
the hallway. She pointed toward the open doorway of the study, without
speaking.

The police rushed into the study. At once there came the sounds of
shots. Dozens of them, it seemed. Later both policemen admitted that
they lost their heads and fired until their guns were empty.

But it was not yet the end of Adam.

It would perhaps be impossible to conceive the full horror of his last
hours, but we can at least make a guess. Asleep when the boys entered
the study, he awakened to a world he had never before perceived except
very vaguely and under the soporific veil of opiate.

But it was a world vastly different even than that. There is no way of
knowing what he saw--probably blurred ghostly figures, monstrous beyond
the ability of his mind to grasp, for his eyes were adjusted only to
the series of prisms and lenses that enabled him to see and co√∂rdinate
the images brought to him through the eyes of the robot.

He saw these impossible figures, he felt pain and torture that were
not of the flesh as he knew it, but of the spirit; agony beyond agony
administered by what he could only believe were fiends from some nether
hell.

And then, abruptly, as ten-year-old Paul shoved his head back into the
helmet, the world he had come to believe was reality returned. It was
as though he had returned to the body from some awful pit of hell, with
the soul sickness still with him.

Before him he saw four human-like figures of reality, but beings unlike
the only two he had ever seen. Smaller, seeming to be a part of the
unbelievable nightmare he had been in. Two of them fled, two were
within his grasp.

Perhaps he didn't know what he was doing when he killed Paul and
Bill. It's doubtful if he had the ability to think at all then, only
to tremble and struggle in his pitiful little rat body, with the
automatic mechanisms of the robot acting from those frantic motions.

But it is known that there were three hours between the deaths of the
two boys and the entry of Dr. MacNare at twelve thirty, and during
those three hours he would have had a chance to recover, and to think,
and to partially rationalize the nightmare he had experienced in realms
outside what to him was the world of reality.

Adam must certainly have been calm enough, rational enough, to
recognize Dr. MacNare when he entered the study at twelve thirty.

Then why did Adam deliberately kill Joe by breaking his neck? Was it
because, in that three hours, he had put together the evidence of his
senses and come to the realization that he was not a man but a rat?

It's not likely. It is much more likely that Adam came to some
aberrated conclusion dictated by the superstitious feelings that had
grown so strongly into his strange and unique existence, that dictated
he must kill Joseph.

For it would have been impossible for him to have realized that he was
only a rat. You see, Joseph MacNare had taken great care that Adam
never, in all his life, should see _another_ rat.
