
"Now here's a likely-looking poison," Hellman said, half an hour
later.

Casker had recovered completely, except for an occasional twitch of
the lips.

"What does it say?" he asked.

Hellman rolled a tiny tube in the palm of his hand. "It's called
Pvastkin's Plugger. The label reads: WARNING! HIGHLY DANGEROUS!
PVASTKIN'S PLUGGER IS DESIGNED TO FILL HOLES OR CRACKS OF NOT MORE
THAN TWO CUBIC VIMS. HOWEVER--THE PLUGGER IS NOT TO BE EATEN UNDER ANY
CIRCUMSTANCES. THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT, RAMOTOL, WHICH MAKES PVASTKIN'S
SO EXCELLENT A PLUGGER RENDERS IT HIGHLY DANGEROUS WHEN TAKEN
INTERNALLY."

"Sounds great," Casker said. "It'll probably blow us sky-high."

"Do you have any other suggestions?" Hellman asked.

Casker thought for a moment. The food of Helg was obviously
unpalatable for humans. So perhaps was their poison ... but wasn't
starvation better than this sort of thing?

After a moment's communion with his stomach, he decided that
starvation was _not_ better.

"Go ahead," he said.

Hellman slipped the burner under his arm and unscrewed the top of the
little bottle. He shook it.

Nothing happened.

"It's got a seal," Casker pointed out.

Hellman punctured the seal with his fingernail and set the bottle on
the floor. An evil-smelling green froth began to bubble out.

Hellman looked dubiously at the froth. It was congealing into a glob
and spreading over the floor.

"Yeast, perhaps," he said, gripping the burner tightly.

"Come, come. Faint heart never filled an empty stomach."

"I'm not holding _you_ back," Hellman said.

The glob swelled to the size of a man's head.

"How long is that supposed to go on?" Casker asked.

"Well," Hellman said, "it's advertised as a Plugger. I suppose that's
what it does--expands to plug up holes."

"Sure. But how _much_?"

"Unfortunately, I don't know how much two cubic vims are. But it can't
go on much--"

Belatedly, they noticed that the Plugger had filled almost a quarter
of the room and was showing no signs of stopping.

"We should have believed the label!" Casker yelled to him, across the
spreading glob. "It _is_ dangerous!"

As the Plugger produced more surface, it began to accelerate in its
growth. A sticky edge touched Hellman, and he jumped back.

"Watch out!"

He couldn't reach Casker, on the other side of the gigantic sphere of
blob. Hellman tried to run around, but the Plugger had spread, cutting
the room in half. It began to swell toward the walls.

"Run for it!" Hellman yelled, and rushed to the door behind him.
