
Nevan scowled down at the unconscious businesser.  He'd restricted his
open questioning to Owajima's plans and next location--his homeworld,
not surprisingly--but he'd done some questioning covertly as well,
making comments about Owajima and reading the answers from his
subject's face and body language.  The man had confirmed an opinion
Nevan had formed early: given the opportunity, he and Owajima could
easily become friends.

This man, for instance.  He'd owed Owajima a debt, true, but it had
been loyalty rather than obligation that had led him to help the way he
had. Assuming he was successful in this mission, Nevan thought, he'd
have to see the businesser got some sort of compensation.  Though the
man had definitely been in serious pain, Nevan had inflicted no real
damage beyond bruises; when the man woke, he'd be able to function
normally.

Nevan was tempted to clean the man up, put him to bed, and dose him
with rapid-heal--but that wasn't how one with his cover occupation
would act. Instead, he got an injector of energine and triggered it
into the businesser's carotid artery.  Seconds later, the man's eyes
opened and he groaned.  "Are you done yet?"

"Yes.  You may get dressed and leave.  I would advise you to waste no
time; liftoff is in ten minutes."

"I'll be gone."  The man struggled to his feet and into the small
'fresher, where Nevan had had him leave his clothing; less than two
minutes later he was leaving the ship.

Nevan had his flight plan ready by then.  He transmitted it to the
spaceport controller, got clearance, and was lifting off at the
specified time.  Not long afterward, he was far enough from the planet
to make the transition to hyperspace, and did so.
