
The Carrins ate a quiet supper, and then it was time for Mr. Carrin to
go to work. He was on night shift this month. He kissed his wife
good-by, climbed into his Jet-lash and roared to the factory. The
automatic gates recognized him and opened. He parked and walked in.

Automatic lathes, automatic presses--everything was automatic. The
factory was huge and bright, and the machines hummed softly to
themselves, doing their job and doing it well.

Carrin walked to the end of the automatic washing machine assembly line,
to relieve the man there.

"Everything all right?" he asked.

"Sure," the man said. "Haven't had a bad one all year. These new models
here have built-in voices. They don't light up like the old ones."

Carrin sat down where the man had sat and waited for the first washing
machine to come through. His job was the soul of simplicity. He just sat
there and the machines went by him. He pressed a button on them and
found out if they were all right. They always were. After passing him,
the washing machines went to the packaging section.

The first one slid by on the long slide of rollers. He pressed the
starting button on the side.

"Ready for the wash," the washing machine said.

Carrin pressed the release and let it go by.

That boy of his, Carrin thought. Would he grow up and face his
responsibilities? Would he mature and take his place in society? Carrin
doubted it. The boy was a born rebel. If anyone got to Mars, it would be
his kid.

But the thought didn't especially disturb him.

"Ready for the wash." Another machine went by.

Carrin remembered something about Miller. The jovial man had always been
talking about the planets, always kidding about going off somewhere and
roughing it. He hadn't, though. He'd committed suicide.

"Ready for the wash."

Carrin had eight hours in front of him, and he loosened his belt to
prepare for it. Eight hours of pushing buttons and listening to a
machine announce its readiness.

"Ready for the wash."

He pressed the release.

"Ready for the wash."

Carrin's mind strayed from the job, which didn't need much attention in
any case. He wished he had done what he had longed to do as a youngster.

It would have been great to be a rocket pilot, to push a button and go
to Mars.

                                                     --ROBERT SHECKLEY




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Galaxy Science Fiction_ December 1952.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.



