
A crowd began to form. The two men sat tensely at their controls, but
the throng clustering about the base of the ship showed no hostility.
They also showed no reverence but, rather, a carefree interest and
joyful welcome.

"Well," said Farnum at last, "looks like we might as well go outside
and ask them to take us to their leader."

"I'm with you as usual," said Bates, starting to climb into his
spacesuit. "Weapons?"

"I don't think so. We can't stop them if they get mad at us, and they
look friendly enough. We'll start off with the 'let's be pals' routine."

Bates nodded. "After we learn the language. I always hate this part--it
moves so slowly. You'd think there'd be some similarity among the
tongues on different planets, wouldn't you? But each one's entirely
different. I guess they've all been isolated too long."

The two men stepped out on the smooth plain, to be instantly surrounded
by a laughing, chattering crowd. Farnum stared around in bewilderment
at the variety of dress the crowd displayed. There were men and women
in togas, in tunics, in draped dresses and kilts, in trousers and
coats. Others considered a light cloak thrown over the shoulders to be
adequate. There was no uniformity of style or custom.

"You pick me a boss-man out of this bunch," he muttered to Bates.

Finally a couple of young men, glowing with health and energy, came
bustling through the crowd with an oblong box which they set down in
front of the Earthmen. They pointed to the box and then back at Farnum
and Bates, laughing and talking as they did so.

"What do you suppose they want us to do?" Farnum asked.

One of the young men clapped his hands happily and reached down to
touch the box. "What do you suppose they want us to do?" asked the box
distinctly.

"Oh. A recording machine. Probably to help with language lessons. Might
as well help them out."
