

The author of that lucid and powerful prose epic built around the life
of Frederick of Prussia; the tenacious artist who, after long
application, wove rich, varied strands of human destiny together under
one single predominating theme in the fictional tapestry known as Maya;
the creator of that stark tale which is called The Wretch and which
pointed out for an entire oncoming generation the possibility of some
moral certainty beyond pure knowledge; finally, the writer (and this
sums up briefly the works of his mature period) of the impassioned
treatise on Art and the Spirit, whose capacity for mustering facts, and,
further, whose fluency in their presentation, led cautious judges to
place this treatise alongside Schiller's conclusions on na√Øve and
sentimental poetry--Gustav Aschenbach, then, was the son of a higher law
official, and was born in L----, a leading city in the Province of
Silesia. His forbears had been officers, magistrates, government
functionaries, men who had led severe, steady lives serving their king,
their state. A deeper strain of spirituality had been manifest in them
once, in the person of a preacher; the preceding generation had brought
a brisker, more sensuous blood into the family through the author's
mother, daughter of a Bohemian band-master. The traces of foreignness in
his features came from her. A marriage of sober painstaking
conscientiousness with impulses of a darker, more fiery nature had had
an artist as its result, and this particular artist.

Since his whole nature was centred around acquiring a reputation, he
showed himself, if not exactly precocious, at least (thanks to the
firmness and pithiness of his personality, his accent) ripened and
adjusted to the public at an early age. Almost as a schoolboy he had
made a name for himself. Within ten years he had learned to face the
world through the medium of his writing-table, to discharge the
obligations of his fame in a correspondence which (since many claims are
pressed on the successful, the trustworthy) had to be brief as well as
pleasant and to the point. At forty, wearied by the vicissitudes and the
exertion of his own work, he had to manage a daily mail which bore the
postmarks of countries in all parts of the world.

Equally removed from the banal and the eccentric, his talents were so
constituted as to gain both the confidence of the general public and the
stable admiration and sympathy of the critical. Thus even as a young man
continually devoted to the pursuit of craftsmanship--and that of no
ordinary kind--he had never known the careless freedom of youth. When,
around thirty-five years of age, he had been taken ill in Vienna, one
sharp observer said of him in company, "You see, Aschenbach has always
lived like this," and the speaker contracted the fingers of his left
hand into a fist; "never like this," and he let his open hand droop
comfortably from the arm of his chair. That hit the mark; and the
heroic, the ethical about it all was that he was not of a strong
constitution, and though he was pledged by his nature to these steady
efforts, he was not really born to them.

Considerations of ill-health had kept him from attending school as a
boy, and had compelled him to receive instruction at home. He had grown
up alone, without comrades--and he was forced to realize soon enough
that he belonged to a race which often lacked, not talent, but that
physical substructure which talent relies on for its fullest fruition: a
race accustomed to giving its best early, and seldom extending its
faculties over the years. But his favourite phrase was "carrying
through"; in his novel on Frederick he saw the pure apotheosis of this
command, which struck him as the essential concept of the virtuous in
action and passion. Also, he wished earnestly to grow old, since he had
always maintained that the only artistry which can be called truly
great, comprehensive, yes even truly admirable, is that which is
permitted to bear fruits characteristic of each stage in human
development.

Since he must carry the responsibilities of his talent on frail
shoulders, and wanted to go a long way, the primary requirement was
discipline--and fortunately discipline was his direct inheritance from
his father's side. By forty, fifty, or at an earlier age when others are
still slashing about with enthusiasm, and are contentedly putting off to
some later date the execution of plans on a large scale, he would start
the day early, dashing cold water over his chest and back, and then with
a couple of tall wax candles in silver candlesticks at the head of his
manuscript, he would pay out to his art, in two or three eager,
scrupulous morning hours, the strength which he had accumulated in
sleep. It was pardonable, indeed it was a direct tribute to the
effectiveness of his moral scheme, that the uninitiated took his Maya
world, and the massive epic machinery upon which the life of the hero
Frederick was unrolled, as evidence of long breath and sustaining power.
While actually they had been built up layer by layer, in small daily
allotments, through hundreds and hundreds of single inspirations. And if
they were so excellent in both composition and texture, it was solely
because their creator had held out for years under the strain of one
single work, with a steadiness of will and a tenacity comparable to that
which conquered his native province; and because, finally, he had turned
over his most vital and valuable hours to the problem of minute
revision.

In order that a significant work of the mind may exert immediately some
broad and deep effect, a secret relationship, or even conformity, must
exist between the personal destiny of the author and the common destiny
of his contemporaries. People do not know why they raise a work of art
to fame. Far from being connoisseurs, they believe that they see in it
hundreds of virtues which justify so much interest; but the true reason
for their applause is an unconscious sympathy. Aschenbach had once
stated quite plainly in some remote place that nearly everything great
which comes into being does so in spite of something--in spite of sorrow
or suffering, poverty, destitution, physical weakness, depravity,
passion, or a thousand other handicaps. But that was not merely an
observation; it was a discovery, the formula of his life and reputation,
the key to his work. And what wonder then that it was also the
distinguishing moral trait, the dominating gesture, of his most
characteristic figures?

Years before, one shrewd analyst had written of the new hero-type to
which this author gave preference, and which kept turning up in
variations of one sort or another: he called it the conception of "an
intellectual and youthful masculinity" which "stands motionless,
haughty, ashamed, with jaw set, while swords and spear-points beset the
body." That was beautiful and ingenious; and it was exact, although it
may have seemed to suggest too much passivity. For to be poised against
fatality, to meet adverse conditions gracefully, is more than simple
endurance; it is an act of aggression, a positive triumph--and the
figure of Sebastian is the most beautiful figure, if not of art as a
whole, at least of the art of literature. Looking into this fictional
world, one saw: a delicate self-mastery by which any inner
deterioration, any biological decay was kept concealed from the eyes of
the world; a crude, vicious sensuality capable of fanning its rising
passions into pure flame, yes, even of mounting to dominance in the
realm of beauty; a pallid weakness which draws from the glowing depths
of the soul the strength to bow whole arrogant peoples before the foot
of the cross, or before the feet of weakness itself; a charming manner
maintained in his cold, strict service to form; a false, precarious mode
of living, and the keenly enervating melancholy and artifice of the born
deceiver--to observe such trials as this was enough to make one question
whether there really was any heroism other than weakness. And in any
case, what heroism could be more in keeping with the times? Gustav
Aschenbach was the one poet among the many workers on the verge of
exhaustion: all those over-burdened, used-up, tenacious moralists of
production who, delicately built and destitute of means, can rely for a
time at least on will-power and the shrewd husbandry of their resources
to secure the effects of greatness. There are many such: they are the
heroes of the period. And they all found themselves in his works; here
they were indeed, upheld, intensified, applauded; they were grateful to
him, they acclaimed him.

In his time he had been young and raw; and misled by his age he had
blundered in public. He had stumbled, had exposed himself; both in
writing and in talk he had offended against caution and tact. But he had
acquired the dignity which, as he insisted, is the innate goad and
craving of every great talent; in fact, it could be said that his entire
development had been a conscious undeviating progression away from the
embarrassments of scepticism and irony, and towards dignity.

The general masses are satisfied by vigour and tangibility of treatment
rather than by any close intellectual processes; but youth, with its
passion for the absolute, can be arrested only by the problematical. And
Aschenbach had been absolute, problematical, as only a youth could be.
He had been a slave to the intellect, had played havoc with knowledge,
had ground up his seed crops, had divulged secrets, had discredited
talent, had betrayed art--yes, while his modellings were entertaining
the faithful votaries, filling them with enthusiasm, making their lives
more keen, this youthful artist was taking the breath away from the
generation then in its twenties by his cynicisms on the questionable
nature of art, and of artistry itself.

But it seems that nothing blunts the edge of a noble, robust mind more
quickly and more thoroughly than the sharp and bitter corrosion of
knowledge; and certainly the moody radicalism of the youth, no matter
how conscientious, was shallow in comparison with his firm determination
as an older man and a master to deny knowledge, to reject it, to pass it
with raised head, in so far as it is capable of crippling, discouraging,
or degrading to the slightest degree, our will, acts, feelings, or even
passions. How else could the famous story of The Wretch be understood
than as an outburst of repugnance against the disreputable psychologism
of the times: embodied in the figure of that soft and stupid half-clown
who pilfers a destiny for himself by guiding his wife (from
powerlessness, from lasciviousness, from ethical frailty) into the arms
of an adolescent, and believes that he may through profundity commit
vileness? The verbal pressure with which he here cast out the outcast
announced the return from every moral scepticism, from all
fellow-feeling with the engulfed: it was the counter-move to the laxity
of the sympathetic principle that to understand all is to forgive
all--and the thing that was here well begun, even nearly completed, was
that "miracle of reborn ingenuousness" which was taken up a little later
in one of the author's dialogues expressly and not without a certain
discreet emphasis. Strange coincidences! Was it as a result of this
rebirth, this new dignity and sternness, that his feeling for beauty--a
discriminating purity, simplicity, and evenness of attack which
henceforth gave his productions such an obvious, even such a deliberate
stamp of mastery and classicism--showed an almost excessive
strengthening about this time? But ethical resoluteness in the exclusion
of science, of emancipatory and restrictive knowledge--does this not in
turn signify a simplification, a reduction morally of the world to too
limited terms, and thus also a strengthened capacity for the forbidden,
the evil, the morally impossible? And does not form have two aspects? Is
it not moral and unmoral at once--moral in that it is the result and
expression of discipline, but unmoral, and even immoral, in that by
nature it contains an indifference to morality, is calculated, in fact,
to make morality bend beneath its proud and unencumbered sceptre?

Be that as it may. An evolution is a destiny; and why should his
evolution, which had been upheld by the general confidence of a vast
public, not run through a different course from one accomplished outside
the lustre and the entanglements of fame? Only chronic vagabondage will
find it tedious and be inclined to scoff when a great talent outgrows
the libertine chrysalis-stage, learns to seize upon and express the
dignity of the mind, and superimposes a formal etiquette upon a solitude
which had been filled with unchastened and rigidly isolated sufferings
and struggles and had brought all this to a point of power and honour
among men. Further, how much sport, defiance, indulgence there is in the
self-formation of a talent! Gradually something official, didactic crept
into Gustav Aschenbach's productions, his style in later life fought shy
of any abruptness and boldness, any subtle and unexpected contrasts; he
inclined towards the fixed and standardized, the conventionally elegant,
the conservative, the formal, the formulated, nearly. And, as is
traditionally said of Louis XIV, with the advancing years he came to
omit every common word from his vocabulary. At about this time it
happened that the educational authorities included selected pages by him
in their prescribed school readers. This was deeply sympathetic to his
nature, and he did not decline when a German prince who had just mounted
to the throne raised the author of the Frederick to nobility on the
occasion of his fiftieth birthday. After a few years of unrest, a few
tentative stopping-places here and there, he soon chose Munich as his
permanent home, and lived there in a state of middle-class
respectability such as fits in with the life of the mind in certain
individual instances. The marriage which, when still young, he had
contracted with a girl of an educated family came to an end with her
death after a short period of happiness. He was left with a daughter,
now married. He had never had a son.

Gustav von Aschenbach was somewhat below average height, dark, and
smooth-shaven. His head seemed a bit too large in comparison with his
almost dapper figure. His hair was brushed straight back, thinning out
towards the crown, but very full about the temples, and strongly marked
with grey; it framed a high, ridged forehead. Gold spectacles with
rimless lenses cut into the bridge of his bold, heavy nose. The mouth
was big, sometimes drooping, sometimes suddenly pinched and firm. His
cheeks were thin and wrinkled, his well-formed chin had a slight cleft.
This head, usually bent patiently to one side, seemed to have gone
through momentous experiences, and yet it was his art which had produced
those effects in his face, effects which are elsewhere the result of
hard and agitated living. Behind this brow the brilliant repartee of the
dialogue on war between Voltaire and the king had been born; these eyes,
peering steadily and wearily from behind their glasses, had seen the
bloody inferno of the lazaret in the Seven Years' War. Even as it
applies to the individual, art is a heightened mode of existence. It
gives deeper pleasures, it consumes more quickly. It carves into its
servants' faces the marks of imaginary and spiritual adventures, and
though their external activities may be as quiet as a cloister, it
produces a lasting voluptuousness, over-refinement, fatigue, and
curiosity of the nerves such as can barely result from a life filled
with illicit passions and enjoyments.



