
A great roar of 'copters sounded out in the afternoon sky, directly
overhead. The house shook. Althea sprang up lithely and ran to look
out. "I can't talk any more, Cross. I'll call you back. _They're_
outside, waiting for me, now...."

Cross' voice faded like a dream. "Remember what I tell you. Let them go
ahead."

Stanley walked to the door, opened it, stepped half through.

A radio voice boomed out of the bright blue sky.

"STANLEY!" it shouted. It was Simpson's voice. "STANLEY! COME OUT AND
TALK! COME OUT AND TELL US, STANLEY! STANLEY!"

Althea would not stay in. She walked with him out onto the moist green
lawn, in the open.

The heavens were flooded with 'copters whirling. The sun shook in its
place. 'Copters hung everywhere, like huge hummingbirds, swiveling,
whirring. Five hundred of them, at least, shadowing the lawns and
shaking the house-tops.

"OH, _THERE_ YOUR ARE, STANLEY!"

Stanley shaded his eyes. His lips drew away from his teeth in a
grimace, as he stared upward, tense and afraid.

"IT'S AFTER THREE O'CLOCK, STANLEY!" came the dull boom of words.

In this moment, with the spiraling 'copters suspended over his lawn,
over his wife and children and house, over himself and his beliefs,
Stanley swallowed, stepped back, put his hands down and let the idea
grow within him. Yes, he would give them their rocket. He would give
it to them. You cannot fight the children, he thought. They must have
their green apples. If you refuse them, they will find a way around
you. Go along with their illogical tide and make logic of it. Let the
children eat their full of green apples, many, many green apples to
swell their vast stomach into sickness. Yes. A slow smile touched the
corners of his mouth, vanished. The plan was complete.

The voice from the sky fell on him like an iron fist! "STANLEY! WHAT
IS YOUR WORD NOW? HOW WILL YOU SPEAK NOW? WITH A THOUSAND POUNDS OF
NITROGLYCERINE OVER YOUR HOME, HOW WILL YOU TALK?"

The 'copters sank, malignantly. Thunder swept the lawn. Althea's
brilliant amber skirt flared in the wash of it.

"WILL THE ROCKET FLY, STANLEY?"

From the corners of his aching, straining eyes, Stanley saw his son
poised in the window, watching him.

"RAISE YOUR RIGHT HAND AND WAVE IT," thundered the sky-voice. "IF THE
ANSWER IS YES!"

Stanley made them wait for it. He wetted his lips with a slow tongue,
then, gradually, very casually, he raised his right hand, palm up, and
waved it to the thundering sky.

A torrent of exultation poured in a Niagara from the heavens. Five
hundred audios blasted, cheered, exulted! The trees ripped and tore in
the cyclone of energy and explosion! The noise continued as Stanley
turned, took Althea's elbow, and steered her blindly back to the door.
