
He woke many times in the following days, but the privations of the
passing years had drained his strength and his mind, had made him so
much of a hermit that the presence of other men frightened him to the
point of gibbering insanity.

He knew that the food and drink were drugged, for after eating he
never remembered seeing the men enter the room to care for him and to
remove the dirty dishes. But there was enough sanity in his mind to
also realize that, without the gradual reawakening of his senses to the
value of human companionship, he might not be able to stand the mental
shock of moving about among his people back on Earth.

During those passing days, he savored each new impression, comparing
it with what he remembered from that age-long past when he and his
friends had walked on Earth's great plains and ridden on the oceans'
sleek ships or flown with the wings of birds over the mountain ranges.
And each impression was doubly enjoyable, for his memory was hazy and
confused.

Gradually, though, his mind cleared; he remembered the past, and he no
longer was afraid of the men who visited him from time to time. But
there was a strangeness about the men that he could not fathom; they
refused to talk about anything, any subject, other than the actual
running of the great ship. Always, when he asked his eager questions,
they mumbled and drifted away.

And then in his third week on the rescue ship, he went to sleep one
night while peering from the port hole at the blue ball of Earth
swimming in the blackness of space. He slept and he dreamed of the
years he had spent by himself in the drifting, lifeless hulk of the
_Mary Lou_. His dreams were vivid, peopled with men and women he had
once known, and were horrible with the fantasies of terror that years
of solitary brooding had implanted deep in his mind.
