
It was early the next morning when they reached the ship. During the
night the Captain had died, and the crew had ignited his body, according
to custom. They had stood solemnly around it until the last ember died.
As they were going back to their work the woman and the two men
appeared, dirty and tired, still excited.

And presently, from the ship, a line of people came, each carrying
something in his hands. The line marched across the gray slag, the
eternal expanse of fused metal. When they reached the weapon they all
fell on the gun at once, with crowbars, hammers, anything that was heavy
and hard.

The telescopic sights shattered into bits. The wiring was pulled out,
torn to shreds. The delicate gears were smashed, dented.

Finally the warheads themselves were carried off and the firing pins
removed.

The gun was smashed, the great weapon destroyed. The people went down
into the vault and examined the treasure. With its metal-armored
guardian dead there was no danger any longer. They studied the pictures,
the films, the crates of books, the jeweled crowns, the cups, the
statues.

At last, as the sun was dipping into the gray mists that drifted across
the planet they came back up the stairs again. For a moment they stood
around the wrecked gun looking at the unmoving outline of it.

Then they started back to the ship. There was still much work to be
done. The ship had been badly hurt, much had been damaged and lost. The
important thing was to repair it as quickly as possible, to get it into
the air.

With all of them working together it took just five more days to make it
spaceworthy.
