
Back home, the _White Whale_, of all of Earth's great fleet of
Explorer-class ships, had hung up the most enviable record. She had
brought back rare elements known to men but unobtainable by them within
the confines of their own tiny Solar System, or rare life-forms,
impossible to study effectively in their native habitats, or precious
new data which were beyond the reach of the astronomer's observatory.
It meant progress. It meant a living force in the universe, a force of
learning and of knowing, which would tolerate no barrier, which would
broach neither defeat nor ultimate conclusion. In short, it meant Man.

Nicholas Joel knew it, and he still hated space.

Since that first indoctrination blast out to the moon and back when
he'd been a plebe--since that day that he'd realized for the first
time how _big_ it was. And how big men ought to be, but weren't. Big
muscles, but little minds....

He still wondered just how the hell they'd sucked him in. They'd
hit him somewhere inside, in a place he'd forgotten to guard--his
instructors, his Commandant, the Secretary of Science himself. They'd
sweet-talked him into staying those twelve years. Young man, they had
told him, yours is a body and a brain with an adaptability to space
exploration the like of which has never been duplicated in our records.
You hate to fly, yet you are the best cadet pilot ever to enter the
Academy. You dislike technical and scientific study, yet your grades in
this field are the highest on record. You despise the regimen of the
military necessary to survival in Space, yet, unaccountably, your cadet
commands have been the most efficient and best handled of any in our
knowledge.

Young man, they had said, here's the works on a silver platter--be a
pilot--you owe it to yourself, to the world, to humanity!

Say you'll take our ships where no other man would dare, and you can
write your own ticket for the rest of your life! _But you simply have
to be a Pilot, young man...._

And he remembered how it had been with Sam, who would have moved the
Earth with arms and legs tied behind him to have qualified. Sam, who
had hungered for it, but had taken a lesser assignment cheerfully, just
so, at least, he could be a part of some other pilot's team in space.

Sam, who had that look in his eyes.

But since his assignment to the _White Whale_ fifteen years ago, there
had never been a sign--not the slightest, that Joel had been able to
detect, that he was doing anything but what he most wanted. That took
guts, and guts. Joel understood.

And so now they'd hit it again. Mneurium-4, the "wonder-element"
that science had discovered would put a host of Earth's most dreaded
diseases to rout, but which it had not been able to obtain or
synthesize despite years of exhaustive effort.

Captain Joel, they had told him, the radio-astronomers say there could
be mneurium-4 somewhere out in Bo√∂tis. Get some.

And in spite of them and their damned passion for onward-and-upward, if
they insisted he pilot space to bring them back one new gew-gaw after
another to play with, then he'd bring them back gew-gaws until they
choked! _Choked!_

And the world he wanted--the world he'd always wanted, would just have
to be for somebody else.

Then he looked at their faces, and they were waiting.

"All right, I get your point! Don't just stand there--Southard, get
your 'copters going! I want a fully plotted area of operation for the
next six months, including jump-off point as of tomorrow at 0600 hours,
and on this desk by 2200 tonight! Dobermann, you won't have anything
to do for awhile, so you can get Southard's servodrillers going for
him; get 'em all out, form 'em on the port flank in details of five. I
want to see it by 2100. Sam, has Dobermann given you any practice in
their lingo? Good--all right, it's time I met 'em--you'll take me to
their capital city or wherever it is their top people are and we'll
get things down in black and white. I'll be ready for you in twenty
minutes. Any questions?"

There weren't. Joel's three officers turned and left, each scrambling
to his new assignment, glad to actually get started before something
happened to upset the unexpected simplicity of the whole thing. There'd
never been a mission that had come off as smoothly as this one was
beginning. It promised to make them feel guilty to draw their pay
checks for it. For once, it looked as though Joel was going to get what
he came after without having to fight down to raw nerve and bone to get
it. Good. The Captain had an easy one coming.

When they'd gone, Joel dropped his great frame into the ancient chair
behind his big desk and got to work with the ship's intercom, flipping
it to main circuit. He did ten minutes' talking in six, and Phase
One was organized, down to the last ship's guard, down to the last
assistant servomech.

Then he had fourteen minutes until Carruthers was due, ready to drive
him to meet these people in their cultivated forest.

So for every one of the fourteen minutes, Captain Nicholas Joel leaned
back in the chair, shut his eyes tight, and filled in a little more of
the world he wanted.
