
He lowered his voice and looked around warily before he continued.
Then, "Manool," he said. "I'm going to make things plain. You heard me
talkin' to Larry, a while ago, and you must be suspicious. Well, your
suspicion is right. There's going to be mutiny aboard this hunk of
fireworks and Cap Tarrant is going to lose his job. Know why? 'Cause
I'm one of Huddersfield's men, and I've been working to seize this ship
for eight months."

Manool shuddered.

"Huddersfield, the Cerean?" he asked.

"The very same! Huddersfield has seized an asteroid and intends to
start a fleet of rockets. He's got a couple already and this'll be his
third. When we get enough, things'll pop, I'll tell you.

"Now listen, Manool--you can throw in with us and go in for
Huddersfield, or you can run and tell Cap Tarrant--and get your bloody
knob knocked off when we take the ship. 'Cause the men are all with me,
Manool, all of 'em, and there ain't a chance of Tarrant winning if it
comes to battle."

He stopped, evidently waiting for Manool to speak. The little farmer
looked up miserably. "But--what can I do?" he cried, plaintively. "Me,
I ain't no fighter, Gilligan. You don't want me for a fighter in your
crew."

Gilligan stood up, smiling broadly. Manool's obvious terror of him
seemed to have reassured him considerably. He winked confidently.

"Manool," he said. "Your business is to keep the air clean, and that's
all you have to do. Except to keep your mouth shut, too. 'Cause if
you peep to the Captain, or to Navigator Rogers, you'll be the first
to die when we cut loose. _But_--" He winked again and his smile
broadened. "You keep the wind fair and the trap closed, and you won't
be forgotten."
