
Jerry opened his eyes to a dizzying view of the dull brown jungle
floor. He blinked a moment, then looked toward his feet. He saw two
sets of thin knobby Vs, extending forward and partly around the tiny
limb he stood upon, their chitinous surface shiny with the wetness of
the jungle air.

Slowly working his jaws, he heard the extremely gentle "click" as they
came together. The endoskeleton must exist all over his host's body.

After making certain it would not disturb his balance on the limb, he
attempted bringing whatever on the alien passed for hands before his
face.

Sometimes aliens had no hands, nor any comparable organisms. Then Jerry
would have to soft-pedal the mental nagging of being "amputated," an
unavoidable carryover from his subconscious "wrong-feeling" about
armlessness.

But this time the effort moved up multi-jointed limbs, spindly as a
cat's whiskers, terminating in a perpetually coiling soft prehensile
tip. He tried feeling along his torso to determine its size and shape.
But the wormlike tips were tactilely insensitive.

Hoping to deduce his shape from his shadow, he inched sideways along
the limb on those inadequate-looking two-pronged feet toward a blob of
yellow sunlight nearer the trunk.

The silhouette on the branch showed him a stubby cigar-shaped torso.

"I seem to be a semi-tentacled no-hop grasshopper," he mused to
himself, vainly trying to turn his head on his neck. "Head, thorax and
abdomen all one piece."

He tried flexing what would be, in a man, the region of the
shoulderblades. He was rewarded by the appearance of long, narrow
wings--two sets of them, like a dragonfly's--from beneath two flaps of
chitin on his back.

He tried an experimental flapping. The pair of wings--white and stiff
like starched tissue paper, not veinous as in Earth-insects--dissolved
in a buzzing blur of motion. The limb fell away from under his tiny
V-shaped feet. And then he was up above the blinding green blanket
of jungle treetops, his shadow pacing his forward movement along the
close-packed quilt of wide leaves below.

"I'd better be careful," thought Jerry. "There may be avian life here
that considers my species the _pi√©ce de resistance_ of the pteroid
set...."

Slowing his rapid wingbeat, he let himself drop down toward the nearest
mattress-sized leaf. He folded his out-thrust feet in mid-air and
dropped the last few inches to a cushiony rest.
