
A slight shimmer of dizziness gripped his mind.

Perhaps the "skull" of this creature was ill-equipped to ward off the
hot rays of the tropic sunlight. Lest his brain be fried in its own
casing, Jerry scuttled along the velvet top of the leaf, and ducked
quickly beneath its nearest overlapping companion. The wave of vertigo
passed quickly, there in the deep shadow. Under the canopy of leaves
Jerry crawled back to a limb near the top of the tree.

A few feet from where he stood, something moved.

Jerry turned that way. Another creature of the same species was
balancing lightly on a green limb of wire-thickness, its gaze fixed
steadily toward the jungle flooring, as Jerry's own had been on
entering the alien body.

Watching out for predators? Or for victims?

He could, he knew, pull his consciousness back enough to let the
creature's own consciousness carry it through its daily cycle of
eating, avoiding destruction, and the manifold businesses of being an
ambient creature. But he decided to keep control. It would be easier
to figure out his host's ecological status in the planet's natural
life-balance by observing the other one for awhile.

Jerry always felt more comfortable when he was in full control. You
never knew when an alien might stupidly stumble into a fatality that
any intelligent mind could easily have avoided.

Idly, as he watched his fellow creature down near the inner part of
the branch, he wondered how much more time he would be in Contact.
Subjectively he'd seemed to be enhosted for about ten minutes. But one
of the drawbacks of Contact was the subjugation of personal time-sense
to that of the host. Depending on the species he enhosted, the
forty-minute Contact period could be an eternity, or the blink of an
eye....
