
A ripping sound yanked his gaze back to the dazed creature and the
gourd again.

A ragged tear had riven the side of the gourd. Tiny coils of green
were dribbling out in batches, like watchsprings spilled from a paper
bag. They struck with a bounce and wriggle on the resilient brown
mulch. And then, as they straightened themselves, Jerry knew them for
what they were: Miniature versions of the grasshopper-things, shaped
precisely like the adults, but only a third as large.

The bear-thing's movements had gone from graceful fluidity to frenzy
now. A loud whistle of fright escaped it as the last of the twitching
green things flopped from its vegetable cocoon, whirred white wings to
dry them and flew off.

And the lumbering creature had reason for its fright.

The instant the last coil of wiggly green life was a vanishing blur in
the green shadows, a cloud of darker green descended upon the pink form
of the beast from the trees.

The grasshopper-things were waiting no longer. Thousands swarmed on the
writhing form, until the bear-thing was a lumpy green parody of itself.

As quickly as the cloud had plunged and clustered, it fell away. The
earth was teeming with the flip-flopping forms of dying insects, white
wings going dark brown and curling like cellophane in open flame. The
bear-thing itself was no longer recognizable, its flesh a myriad
egg-like white lumps. It swayed in agony for a moment, then toppled.

Instantly the other creatures--his host with them--were racing forward
to the site of the encounter. Jerry felt his host's long gummy tongue
flick out and snare one--just one--of the dead adult insects. It was
ingested whole by a deft backflip of tongue to gullet. As his host
turned tail and scurried for the tunnel once more, Jerry swiftly took
control again, and halted it to observe any further developments.
