
Young Mr. and Mrs. Philip Vinson started housekeeping in what had once
been a mansion. It was now a rundown eyesore.

It had belonged to Norah Vinson's great-aunt Martha, who had left it
to her in her will. The estate was in litigation, but the executor had
permitted the Vinsons to settle down in the house, though they weren't
allowed yet to sell it. It had no modern conveniences, and was full of
rooms they couldn't use and heavy old-fashioned furniture; but it was
solidly built and near the laboratory where he worked as a technician,
and they could live rent-free until they could sell the house and use
the money to buy a real home.

"Something funny happened in the lab last night," Philip reported,
watching Norah struggle with dinner on the massive coal-stove.
"Somebody broke in and stole about half our experimental animals. And
they got our pride and joy."

"The famous SK540?" Norah asked.

"The same. Actually, it wasn't a break-in. It must have been an inside
job. The cages were open but there were no signs of breaking and
entering. We're all under suspicion till they find out who-dunit."

Norah looked alarmed.

"You too? What on earth would anybody want with a lot of laboratory
rats? They aren't worth anything, are they--financially, I mean?"

"Not a cent. That's why I'm sure one of the clean-up kids must have
done it. Probably wanted them for pets. They're all tame, of course,
not like wild rats--though they can bite like wild rats if they want
to. Some of the ones missing are treated, and some are controls. It
would just be a nuisance if they hadn't taken SK540. Now they've
got to find him, or do about five years' work over again, without
any assurance of as great a success. To say nothing of letting our
super-rat loose on the world."

"What on earth could even a super-rat do that would matter--to human
beings, I mean?"

"Nobody knows. Maybe that's what we're going to find out."
