
"This time he did back well into the house. I stuck my foot into the
doorway so that he couldn't close the door. At the same time I got a
glimpse past him. His front door opened directly into his main room,
his living room, and I could see that someone was standing there
waiting for him--a tallish fellow with one arm folded across his
chest and supporting his elbow, one hand cupping his chin. He seemed
impatient but of course I couldn't see that clearly.

"If it hadn't been so absurdly impossible I'd have sworn the fellow was
Herman. But of course it was undoubtedly Maugham's new assistant. For
once the local gadabouts had the story straight."

"And did he move?" I asked.

"Oh yes. He went on schedule--_with_ his assistant. I don't know what
became of Herman in the exodus. Presumably he moved with them because
he turned up in Nevada with Maugham. But I saw no sign of him when I
watched Maugham from a distance boarding the train. I suppose Herman
could have been taken apart and shipped on ahead. Then he could have
been reassembled and set to working again."

"But how do you know Herman went along to Nevada?" I asked, pouring
Harrigan yet another drink.

"By one of those ridiculous mistakes the newspapers sometimes make.
Maugham hadn't been out west two months before a flash flood tore
through the village in which he'd set up housekeeping and inventing.
Maugham was one of the victims. The paper nearest there carried a
picture of Maugham and his robot, which by that time was public
property out there.

"But by one of those odd accidents of the press the names under the
pictures had been transposed--under Herman's picture appeared Maugham's
name, and under Maugham's Herman's. And to carry the mistake to the
epitome of the ludicrous I'm damned if Maugham didn't look exactly like
a robot and Herman just like a man!"

