
Dog gave it up for a while. He was pretty busy, anyway. Driving a Ford
that has no front bushings, on a road that is composed chiefly of ruts
with a generous sprinkling of crags that must be leaped, is a man-sized
job by itself. When he finally resumed, it was via a third party. He
addressed his remarks to Ducky, hollering them from the side of his
mouth.

“You didn’t know I was getting a washing-machine, did you?”

“No, and I don’t care for it any,” came a jolted answer. “Seems to me
we’re getting all-fired civilized lately. Next thing I know you’ll be
sending away for a woman.”

Dog laughed. Percival suddenly sat up straight and looked at him
anxiously.

“Are there no women?”

This was, of course, as funny a thing as he could have said. Dog and
Ducky laughed noisily, and the Ford, unattended for a split second,
leaped into a ditch, and then, in answer to a savage jerk, hopped back
onto the road, quivering from her nose to the place where her tail-light
once was.

“Well, I wouldn’t go so far as to say that,” said Dog. “There’s a nester
in beyond about twenty miles that’s got a woman. He got her off the
reservation near Parma, summer before last. They say she’s a pretty good
cook for a squaw. We could go over and see her some time if you want
to.”

He looked at the lad by his side, but the lad was looking straight
ahead, tight-lipped, silent and unutterably sad. Dog gave it up, and
they made the last twelve miles, which, incidentally were the worst, in
a silence broken only by the never-stopping rattle of the Ford. The Ford
had lights, of a sort, but after darkness set in, Dog made small use of
them, driving by a sixth sense that enabled him to steer the crazy
vehicle in its rock-strewn course. Twice the car broke loose and dived
down dry watercourses, and Ducky had to get out and push to help get it
back onto the track that Western courtesy called a road.
