
"You have paid in advance for twenty-five minutes of my time," Lima
said, as she smiled in amusement. "Perhaps you had better begin your
questions, instead of merely staring at me."

Bennett brought his thoughts back with an effort. "Your performance
was exceptionally good," he said very soberly. "I enjoyed it. And so,
apparently did the other customers. It is a clever routine. I'll admit
I can't figure out how you do it."

"Remember what Barnum said," Lima replied lightly.

"At least you do not take yourself too seriously," Bennett observed.

"On the contrary." Lima countered, "I take myself very seriously. You,
however, do not. You are paying for my time and the customer is always
right."

"Tell me," Bennett asked abruptly, "have we ever met before?"

"Not to my knowledge."

"Have you any objections to telling me about yourself during our
interview? Who are you? What is your background?"

"I will be glad to tell you about myself, if you think it will be
interesting," she replied, after a barely perceptible pause. "How I
came by this exceptional ability of mine, I have no slightest
conception. I only remember that when I was young, and still without
the intellect to evaluate social mores and customs, I was often placed
in positions of awkwardness by my ability to read minds. At an early
age, however, through the council of my parents, I learned to keep
this knowledge to myself.

"By the time I reached my twentieth birthday, my parents were both
dead and I was alone in the world. I had never learned any occupation.
I made some attempts to use my mind-reading to some advantage to
myself, but soon found that I encountered the opposition of the
medical associations as well as the law. As a consequence, I turned to
show business as the one means of earning a legitimate livelihood.
There is not much more to tell."

"Can you actually read minds?" Bennett asked insistently.

"I can."

"Then what am I thinking now?"

"You are thinking," Lima said, with no semblance of a trance or any of
the other usual antics of professional mystics, "that I look exactly
like a woman you have never seen, but whose image you have carried in
your mind since your childhood."

For just a moment, the startling accuracy disconcerted Bennett.

"I have a problem which is quite annoying," he pushed on almost
frantically. "Can you tell me what my problem is?"

"You have been subject to extremely severe headaches, which you have
been unable to remedy, either by sedatives or with the help of a
neurologist. Am I correct?"

"More than you could possibly know! Look, I came here believing you
were a fake. That didn't matter--it was the fact that you looked like
this other woman that counted. I'm convinced now. I want your help.
Can you help me, or at least tell me whether the neurologist is right
about the cause of my headaches?"

"He is wrong," Lima said. "I can tell you what causes them, but I am
afraid that I will have to ask for another hundred dollars for that
extra service."

Bennett was momentarily irritated at this evidence that their
relationship, at least as far as she was concerned, was strictly
business. But he shrugged off the feeling. He drew five twenty-dollar
bills from his pocketbook and placed them on the table before her.

"If you remember," Lima said, folding the money carefully and tucking
it into the neck of her dress, "five months ago a building which you
had contracted to build fell, when it was nearly completed, and two
workmen were killed."

"I remember very well."

"You found that the collapse of the building was caused by faulty
material which you had bought through a subcontractor. You are still
investigating to determine where to place the blame, and are on the
point of doing so."

"Go on," Bennett breathed softly.

"You are quite certain that the person responsible is John Tournay,
ostensibly a reputable contractor, but actually an unscrupulous
scoundrel. You have a choice of exposing him, with great personal
danger to yourself--Tournay is a dangerous and ruthless man--or
remaining silent and knowing that you are a coward. The difficulty of
that choice is causing your headaches."

"You may be right," Bennett admitted without hesitation. "I haven't
had time to think the matter through quite that far. What would you
advise me to do?"

"That is something which cannot be advised. The answer lies within
yourself. You are either a big enough man to do the right thing--which
you yourself recognize--or you are a small man and will take the
safer, less honorable course. The decision and the integrity lie
within yourself."
