
Day came, sunless. The sky was over-cast with the dreary gray of a
casket. The native stirred slightly and leaped to his feet. The
calculation he had made the day before was correct; the berg had become
a part of another floe, the vastness of which the eye could not measure.

The Eskimo squirmed cautiously to the highest point in the immediate
vicinity, then as cautiously returned, his eyes gleaming, the spear
gripped tightly. He grunted in dialect, and glanced about; then Walton
understood. A polar bear had sensed their presence and was making his
way to them, hunting instead of being hunted. The native gripped his
spear tighter as the bear drew near. It was an ordeal a strong man would
have shunned.

“Give me your knife; it’s our only chance,” cried Walton. “We’ve got to
eat!”

Suspicion flashed into the dark eyes; he waved the white man aside.
Walton picked up a block of ice. “I’ll do what I can!” Again the native
waved him back, then crawled toward the beast in an effort to gain some
advantage in position. In a twinkling Walton had been thrust back into
the ages ten thousand years. He watched the impending struggle
entranced. The Eskimo steeled himself, gathered together the last ounce
of strength in his withered frame and put it all in one vicious lunge of
the spear.

The ivory head drove deep to a vital spot; blood gushed down the heavy
white coat; the bear roared in pain. The spear was jerked from the
Eskimo’s hands as the brute turned, snarling, to attack. The native
leaped backward and slipped swiftly down an icy slope to vanish on hands
and knees. The bear pursued, leaving a red trail. Driven by hunger of
the raw man to do what he could to bring down the raw food, Walton
followed cautiously. Presently the native emerged, crawling, each
movement a slow and painful effort. He had put his all into the single
thrust; the effort had left him helpless, and he would have been an easy
mark for the white man.
