
Provisions aboard the trading schooner _Sealth_ were low, but her
skipper ignored that as he picked his way through narrow leads into the
very jaws of the pack. It had been ten years since Madison had been
rescued from an iceberg, and he had never forgotten it. Veterans of the
Arctic shook their heads in doubt as they glanced from the icy fangs of
the floes to the grim figure in the wheelhouse. He was reckless at
times, daring, but never had he seemed to cast discretion to the Arctic
winds. Always he was lashed with the thought that if he went a mile
farther into the ice, his quest might be successful--that if he turned
back, he might leave fellow-humans to perish.

The man in the bow fending off smaller bergs with a pike-pole cursed,
for his parka hood was frozen where the moisture from his breath had
congealed. One mass larger than the others loomed up. Beyond that, man
could not go, unless he was fitted with wings. And then--the man in the
bow dropped the pole to the deck; forgotten was his frozen beard as he
cried out and pointed dead ahead.

Ice was knocked off from the blocks and falls, and a boat gotten over
the side. Madison stood in the stern, steering. Two held it to the ice
while the skipper and two others leaped to the floe. Out in the lead the
mate was already maneuvering the schooner about for the southerly
flight. “Old Walton’s kid,” muttered Madison. “Looks about like I did
when they found me. He’ll live. Lucky thing the old man radioed me to
take a look.” He picked up a bit of gnawed skin that had once been
fashioned to hold seal-oil. Except for the extra pair of mukluks, all
clothing was on the man. The mukluks had been gnawed at the tops. “The
ancient code!” reflected Madison.

“That the race may go on,” whispered the rescued man painfully as in a
dream.

Madison nodded.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the November 1924 issue of
Blue Book Magazine.]


