
The City's wall was not far behind. Robert was visible in the distance,
striding toward his sky-ship, a widening cloud of dust rising behind
him like the spreading wake of a boat. Koroby stood on tip-toe, waving
and calling after him, "Robert! Robert! Come back!" but he did not seem
to hear.

She watched him a little longer. Then she deliberately stooped and drew
the firestone out of its sheath. She touched it to a blade of the tall
grass. A little orange flame licked up, slowly quested along the blade,
down to the ground and up another stem. It slipped over to another
stem, and another, growing larger, hotter--Koroby stepped back from the
writhing fire, her hand protectively over her face.

The flames crackled at first--like the crumpling of thin paper. Then,
as they widened and began climbing hand over hand up an invisible
ladder, they roared. Koroby was running back toward the City now, away
from the heat. The fire spread in a long line over the prairie. Above
its roar came shouts from the City. The flames rose in a monstrous
twisting pillar, brighter than even the dust-palled sky, lighting the
buildings and the prairie. The heat was dreadful.

Koroby reached the City wall, panted through the gate into a shrieking
crowd. Someone grasped her roughly--she was too breathless to do more
than gasp for air--and shook her violently. "You fool, you utter
fool! What did you think you were doing?" Others clamored around her,
reaching for her. Then she heard Yasak's voice. Face stern, he pushed
through the crowd, pressed her to him. "Let her alone--Let her alone, I
say!"

They watched the conflagration, Yasak and Koroby, from a higher part of
the wall than where the others were gathered. They could glimpse Robert
now and then. He was running, trying to outrace the flames. Then they
swept around him, circling him--his arms flailed frantically.
