
He cleared his throat. "Too bad we can't listen to more
phono-commercials, but even when there isn't a crisis on the agenda, I
find I have to budget my listening time. One minute per hour strikes a
reasonable balance between duty and self-indulgence."

The nearest wall began to sing:

    Mister J. Augustus Krumbine,
    We all think you're fine, fine, fine, fine.
    Now out of the skyey blue
    Come some telegrams for you.

The wall opened to a small heart shape toward the center and a sheaf of
pale yellow envelopes arced out and plopped on the middle of the desk.
Krumbine started to leaf through them, scanning the little transparent
windows.

"Hm, Electronic Soap ... Better Homes and Landing Platforms ...
Psycho-Blinkers ... Your Girl Next Door ... Poppy-Woppies ...
Poopsy-Woopsies...."

He started to open an envelope, then, after a quick look around and an
apologetic smile at Potshelter, dumped them all on the disposal hopper,
which gargled briefly.

"After all, there _is_ a crisis this morning," he said in a defensive
voice.

Potshelter nodded absently. "I can remember back before personalized
delivery and rhyming robots," he observed. "But how I'd miss them
now--so much more distingu√© than the hives with their non-personalized
radio, TV and stereo advertising. For that matter, I believe there are
some backward areas on Terra where the great advertising potential of
telephones and telegrams hasn't been fully realized and they are still
used in part for personal communication. Now me, I've never in my life
sent or received a message except on my walky-talky." He patted his
breast pocket.

Krumbine nodded, but he was a trifle shocked and inclined to revise
his estimate of Potshelter's social status. Krumbine conducted his own
social correspondence solely by telepathy. He shared with three other
SBI officials a private telepath--a charming albino girl named Agnes.

"Yes, and it's a very handsome walky-talky," he assured Potshelter a
little falsely. "Suits you. I like the upswept antenna." He drummed
on the desk and swallowed another blue tranquilizer. "Dammit, what's
happened to those machines? They ought to have the two spies here by
now. Did you notice that the second--the intended recipient of the
letter, I mean--seems to be female? Another good Terran name, too, Jane
Dough. Hive in Upper Manhattan." He began to tap the envelope sharply
against the desk. "Dammit, where _are_ they?"

"Excuse me," Potshelter said hesitantly, "but I'm wondering why you
haven't read the message inside the envelope."
