
Well, the strangers are gone, but they're coming back. It hasn't been
decided yet just what will happen. Maybe the Nest will be kept up as
what one of the strangers called a "survival school." Or maybe we will
join the pioneers who are going to try to establish a new colony at the
uranium mines at Great Slave Lake or in the Congo.

Of course, now that the strangers are gone, I've been thinking a
lot about Los Alamos and those other tremendous colonies. I have a
hankering to see them for myself.

You ask me, Pa wants to see them, too. He's been getting pretty
thoughtful, watching Ma and Sis perk up.

"It's different, now that we know others are alive," he explains to me.
"Your mother doesn't feel so hopeless any more. Neither do I, for that
matter, not having to carry the whole responsibility for keeping the
human race going, so to speak. It scares a person."

I looked around at the blanket walls and the fire and the pails of air
boiling away and Ma and Sis sleeping in the warmth and the flickering
light.

"It's not going to be easy to leave the Nest," I said, wanting to cry,
kind of. "It's so small and there's just the four of us. I get scared
at the idea of big places and a lot of strangers."

He nodded and put another piece of coal on the fire. Then he looked at
the little pile and grinned suddenly and put a couple of handfuls on,
just as if it was one of our birthdays or Christmas.

"You'll quickly get over that feeling son," he said. "The trouble with
the world was that it kept getting smaller and smaller, till it ended
with just the Nest. Now it'll be good to have a real huge world again,
the way it was in the beginning."

I guess he's right. You think the beautiful young lady will wait for me
till I grow up? I'll be twenty in only ten years.



