
Lt. Dhene of the Rebels glanced out his office window, eyes resting
puzzledly on the space-boat that sat silently where it had been brought
down by the landing field's tractor-beams. He frowned, then continued
writing his report:

"What would seem to have happened is this: Karrin, with a depleted
store of oxygen and unaware of the animal's presence, undertook to
flee here to escape the Patrol (see Rep. 151 and recordings of Patrol
broadcasts M16, 17, N2), and in midpassage discovered the dog which
must have somehow contrived to remain out of sight until that time. By
then it was too late, for the tanks were empty and the oxygen in the
body of the boat was not sufficient to last the trip. He could not turn
back, and that he knew we would not risk sending a boat to pick him up
is evinced by the fact that he did not call upon us to do so.

"I believe it likely that Karrin debated killing the dog as well as
himself, but decided vengefully that the animal--indirectly the cause
of his destruction--should suffer the agony of asphyxiation. Therefore
he shot only himself (see enclosed microshots, showing interior of boat
with corpse exactly as found after boat, due to erratic behavior, was
beamed onto field as safety measure). The dog, however--"

Lieutenant Dhene looked up and grinned at the stern-wagging Atoms,
working noisily over a _garn_ steak beside the desk.

"--the dog, being very small and somewhat addicted to inactivity,
survived the trip and led us a merry chase before his final capture. I
request that we be allowed to adopt him as a mascot--"

Dhene chewed at his pencil, then laid it on the desk and clapped his
hands.

"Here, boy," he growled, "you've given me a crazy kind of report to
write up. Come here and give us a hand!--come on, speak! What's the
story?"

Sergeant Atoms eyed him for a moment, growled softly, and returned to
the steak.