
It was an intelligent face--round, broad-nosed, the eyes almond-shaped
and the hair abundant and black. The man's body was stocky and
powerful, graceful as he ran beside the tubed-in river. He waved and
smiled, and Regan hoped his own answering smile was visible behind the
faceplate of his spacesuit.

Regan doubted that telepathy had anything to do with making the man
notice him originally; nevertheless, he thought furiously: "How do I
get out of here?"

The response was made more to Regan's obvious predicament than because
of thought transference, he was sure; at any rate, the man pointed,
then raced ahead.

Regan lost sight of him for an agonizingly long minute or two, then
saw him again, standing and pointing up. Another bridge was spanning
the river. The man gestured to it emphatically, then pointed ahead
again and held up two fingers. Alternately he pointed to the bridge and
gestured with his fingers. Regan decided that this meant there would be
some sort of help for him at the second bridge beyond. He nodded his
head vigorously.

The man seemed to see the motion. He nodded and smiled.

Regan cut the power of the rocket engine and let the current speed
his journey. The man outside increased his own pace, and when another
bridge swept overhead, he nodded and held up one finger. Regan trembled
with relief at this confirmation of the pantomimed message. He fought
back the weariness that had begun to creep over him again, and clung
doggedly to the rocket whose exhaust regulated his speed to that of the
running man.

Regan thought the bridge would never be reached. He felt supremely
weary. He was sopping wet, his eyes kept going out of focus, his throat
ached, and his head was throbbing with jagged pains. It took all his
waning strength to cling to consciousness.
