
A long silence while the river mists seemed to weave a bright cocoon of
radiance about Jimmy clinging to the bank, and the great circular disk
that had swallowed up Uncle Al.

Then the voices began again. "No reason why Uncle Al shouldn't have a
little fun out of life, Jimmy. Gold's easy to make and we'll make some
right now. A big lump of gold in Uncle Al's hand won't hurt him in any
way."

"Whenever he gets any spending money he gives it away!" Jimmy gulped.

"I know, Jimmy. But he'll listen to you. Tell him you want to go to New
Orleans, too!"

Jimmy looked up quickly then. In his heart was something of the wonder
he'd felt when he'd seen his first riverboat and waited for he knew not
what. Something of the wonder that must have come to men seeking magic
in the sky, the rainmakers of ancient tribes and of days long vanished.

Only to Jimmy the wonder came now with a white burst of remembrance and
recognition.

It was as though he could sense something of himself in the two towering
spheres that rose straight up out of the water behind the disk. Still
and white and beautiful they were, like bubbles floating on a rainbow
sea with all the stars of space behind them.

Staring at them, Jimmy saw himself as he would be, and knew himself for
what he was. It was not a glory to be long endured.

"Now you must forget again, Jimmy! Forget as Uncle Al will forget--until
we come for you. Be a little shantyboat boy! You are safe on the wide
bosom of the Father of Waters. Your parents planted you in a rich and
kindly loam, and in all the finite universes you will find no cosier
nook, for life flows here with a diversity that is infinite
and--_Pigtail_! She gets on your nerves at times, doesn't she, Jimmy?"

"She sure does," Jimmy admitted.

"Be patient with her, Jimmy. She's the only human sister you'll ever
have on Earth."

"I--I'll try!" Jimmy muttered.
