
I couldn't get it out of my mind for a long while. I used to lie in bed
and think of it somewhat like this:

There was this man, with his feet planted in the purple sands, and
he looked up into the night sky when the moon called Deimos was in
perigee, and he studied it. And he said to himself, "Well, I shall
write a book and I shall say in this book that the moon of Mars is thus
and so. And I will be accurately describing it, for in truth the moon
_is_ thus and so."

And on the other side of the planet there was another man. And he, too,
looked up into the night sky. And he began to study the moon called
_Phobos_. And he, too, decided to write a book. And he knew he could
accurately describe the moon of Mars, for his own eyes had told him it
looked like thus and so. And his own eyes did not lie.

I thought of it in a manner somewhat like that. I could tell the woman
that Harry Smythe, her first husband, was the man who had killed
Tahily, the Martian she loved. I could tell her Smythe had killed him
in a fair fight because the Martian had tried to jump a claim. And her
heart would be set to rest, for she would know that the whole thing was
erased and done with, at last.

Or, on the other hand, I could do what I eventually did do. I could
tell her absolutely nothing, in the knowledge that that way she would
at least have the strength of hate with which to sustain herself
through the years of her life. The strength of her hate against this
man, whoever he might be, plus the chill joy of anticipating the
day--maybe not tomorrow, but some day--when, like the dream of finding
gold on Mars, she'd finally track him down and kill him.

I couldn't leave her without a reason for living. Her man was dead and
her son would never whistle again. She had to have something to live
for, didn't she?



