
Norwood Press,
J.S. Cushing Co.—Berwick & Smith Co.,
Norwood, Mass., U.S.A.




Contents

 A PREFATORY NOTE
 INTRODUCTION:
      History of the Short-story
      Qualities of the Short-story
      Composition of the Short-story
      Books for Reference
      Collections of Short-stories
 THE FATHER. 1860. Björnstjerne Björnson.
 THE GRIFFIN AND THE MINOR CANON. 1887. Frank R. Stockton.
 THE PIECE OF STRING. 1884. Guy de Maupassant.
 THE MAN WHO WAS. 1889. Rudyard Kipling.
 THE FALL OF THE HOUSE OF USHER. 1839. Edgar Allan Poe.
 THE GOLD-BUG. 1843. Edgar Allan Poe.
 THE BIRTHMARK. 1843. Nathaniel Hawthorne.
 ETHAN BRAND. 1848. Nathaniel Hawthorne.
 THE SIRE DE MALÉTROIT'S DOOR. 1878. Robert Louis Stevenson.
 MARKHEIM. 1884. Robert Louis Stevenson.




A PREFATORY NOTE


This collection of short-stories does not illustrate the history of
short-story writing, nor does it pretend that these are the ten best
stories ever written, but it does attempt to present selections from a
list of the greatest short-stories that have proved, in actual use,
most beneficial to high school students.

The introduction presents a concise statement of the essentials of the
history, qualities, and composition of the short-story. A brief
biography of each author and a criticism covering the main
characteristics of his writings serve as starting points for the
recitation. The references following both the biography and criticism
are given in order that the study of the short-story may be amplified,
and that high school teachers may build a systematic and serviceable
library about their class work in the teaching of the story. The
collateral readings, listed after each story, will aid in the creation
of a suitable atmosphere for the story studied, and explain many
questions developed in the recitation. Only such definitions as are not
easily found in school dictionaries are included in the notes.




INTRODUCTION

HISTORY OF THE SHORT-STORY

Just when, where, and by whom story-telling was begun no one can say.
From the first use of speech, no doubt, our ancestors have told stories
of war, love, mysteries, and the miraculous performances of lower
animals and inanimate objects. The ultimate source of all stories lies
in a thorough democracy, unhampered by the restrictions of a higher
civilization. Many tales spring from a loathsome filth that is
extremely obnoxious to our present day tastes. The remarkable and
gratifying truth is, however, that the short-story, beginning in the
crude and brutal stages of man's development, has gradually unfolded to
greater and more useful possibilities, until in our own time it is a
most flexible and moral literary form.

The first historical evidence in the development of the story shows no
conception of a short-story other than that it is not so long as other
narratives. This judgment of the short-story obtained until the
beginning of the nineteenth century, when a new version of its meaning
was given, and an enlarged vision of its possibilities was experienced
by a number of writers almost simultaneously. In the early centuries of
story-telling there was only one purpose in mind—that of narrating for
the joy of the telling and hearing. The story-tellers sacrificed unity
and totality of effect as well as originality for an entertaining
method of reciting their incidents.

The story of _Ruth_ and the _Prodigal Son_ are excellent short tales,
but they do not fulfill the requirements of our modern short-story for
the reason that they are not constructed for one single impression, but
are in reality parts of possible longer stories. They are, as it were,
parts of stories not unlike _Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde_ and _A Lear of
the Steppes_, and lack those complete and concise artistic effects
found in the short-stories, _Markheim_ and _Mumu_, by the same authors.
Both _Ruth_ and the _Prodigal Son_ are exceptionally well told, possess
a splendid moral tone, and are excellent prophecies of what the
nineteenth century has developed for us in the art of short-story
writing.

The Greeks did very little writing in prose until the era of their
decadence, and showed little instinct to use the concise and unified
form of the short-story. The conquering Romans followed closely in the
paths of their predecessors and did little work in the shorter
narratives. The myths of Greece and Rome were not bound by facts, and
opened a wonderland where writers were free to roam. The epics were
slow in movement, and presented a list of loosely organized stories
arranged about some character like Ulysses or AEneas.

During the mediaeval period story-tellers and stories appeared
everywhere. The more ignorant of these story-tellers produced the
fable, and the educated monks produced the simple, crude and disjointed
tales. The _Gesta Romanorum_ is a wonderful storehouse of these
mediaeval stories. In the _Decameron_ Boccaccio deals with traditional
and contemporary materials. He is a born story-teller and presents many
interesting and well-told narratives, but as Professor Baldwin[1] has
said, more than half are merely anecdotes, and the remaining stories
are bare plots, ingeniously done in a kind of scenario form. Three
approach our modern idea of the short-story, and two, the second story
of the second day and the sixth story of the ninth day, actually attain
to our standard. Boccaccio was not conscious of a standard in
short-story telling, for he had none in the sense that Poe and
Maupassant defined and practiced it. Chaucer in England told his
stories in verse and added the charm of humor and well defined
characters to the development of story-telling.

In the seventeenth century Cervantes gave the world its first great
novel, _Don Quixote_. Cervantes was careless in his work and did not
write short-stories, but tales that are fairly brief. Spain added to
the story a high sense of chivalry and a richness of character that the
Greek romance and the Italian novella did not possess. France followed
this loose composition and lack of beauty in form. Scarron and Le Sage,
the two French fiction writers of this period, contributed little or
nothing to the advancement of story-telling. Cervantes' _The Liberal
Lover_ is as near as this period came to producing a real short-story.

The story-telling of the seventeenth century was largely shaped by the
popularity of the drama. In the eighteenth century the drama gave place
to the essay, and it is to the sketch and essay that we must go to
trace the evolution of the story during this period. Voltaire in France
had a burning message in every essay, and he paid far greater attention
to the development of the thought of his message than to the story he
was telling. Addison and Steele in the _Spectator_ developed some real
characters of the fiction type and told some good stories, but even
their best, like _Theodosius and Constantia_, fall far short of
developing all the dramatic possibilities, and lack the focusing of
interest found in the nineteenth century stories. Some of Lamb's
_Essays of Elia_, especially the _Dream Children_, introduce a delicate
fancy and an essayist's clearness of thought and statement into the
story. At the close of this century German romanticism began to seep
into English thought and prepare the way for things new in literary
thought and treatment.

The nineteenth century opened with a decided preference for fiction.
Washington Irving, reverting to the _Spectator_, produced his sketches,
and, following the trend of his time, looked forward to a new form and
wrote _The Spectre Bridegroom_ and _Rip Van Winkle_. It is only by a
precise definition of short-story that Irving is robbed of the honor of
being the founder of the modern short-story. He loved to meander and to
fit his materials to his story scheme in a leisurely manner. He did not
quite see what Hawthorne instinctively followed and Poe consciously
defined and practiced, and he did not realize that terseness of
statement and totality of impression were the chief qualities he needed
to make him the father of a new literary form. Poe and Maupassant have
reduced the form of the short-story to an exact science; Hawthorne and
Harte have done successfully in the field of romanticism what the
Germans, Tieck and Hoffman, did not do so well; Bjornson and Henry
James have analyzed character psychologically in their short-stories;
Kipling has used the short-story as a vehicle for the conveyance of
specific knowledge; Stevenson has gathered most, if not all, of the
literary possibilities adaptable to short-story use, and has
incorporated them in his _Markheim_.

France with her literary newspapers and artistic tendencies, and the
United States with magazines calling incessantly for good
short-stories, and with every section of its conglomerate life
clamoring to express itself, lead in the production and rank of
short-stories. Maupassant and Stevenson and Hawthorne and Poe are the
great names in the ranks of short-story writers. The list of present
day writers is interminable, and high school students can best acquire
a reasonable appreciation of the great work these writers are doing by
reading regularly some of the better grade literary magazines.

For a comprehensive view of specimens representing the history and
development of the short-story, students should have access to Brander
Matthews' _The Short Story_, Jessup and Canby's _The Book of the
Short-Story_, and Waite and Taylor's _Modern Masterpieces of Short
Prose Fiction_.

NOTE: [1] _American Short-Stories_, by Charles Sears Baldwin, New York:
Longmans, Green, & Company, 1904.




QUALITIES OF THE SHORT-STORY

It was not until well along in the nineteenth century that any one
attempted to define the short-story. The three quotations given here
are among the best things that have been spoken on this subject.

"The right novella is never a novel cropped back from the size of a
tree to a bush, or the branch of a tree stuck into the ground and made
to serve for a bush. It is another species, destined by the agencies at
work in the realm of unconsciousness to be brought into being of its
own kind, and not of another,"—W.D. Howells, _North American Review_,
173:429.

"A true short-story is something other and something more than a mere
story which is short. A true short-story differs from the novel chiefly
in its essential unity of impression. In a far more exact and precise
use of the word, a short-story has unity as a novel cannot have it…. A
short-story deals with a single character, a single event, a single
emotion, or the series of emotions called forth by a single
situation.—Brander Matthews, _The Philosophy of the Short-Story_.

"The aim of a short-story is to produce a single narrative effect with
the greatest economy of means that is consistent with the utmost
emphasis."—Clayton Hamilton, _Materials and Methods of Fiction_.

The short-story must always have a compact unity and a direct
simplicity. In such stories as Björnson's _The Father_ and Maupassant's
_The Piece of String_ this simplicity is equal to that of the anecdote,
but in no case can an anecdote possess the dramatic possibilities of
these simple short-stories; for a short-story must always have that
tensity of emotion that comes only in the crucial tests of life.

The short-story does not demand the consistency in treatment of the
long story, for there are not so many elements to marshal and direct
properly, but the short-story must be original and varied in its
themes, cleverly constructed, and lighted through and through with the
glow of vivid imaginings. A single incident in daily life is caught as
in a snap-shot exposure and held before the reader in such a manner
that the impression of the whole is derived largely from suggestion.
The single incident may be the turning-point in life history, as in
_The Man Who Was_; it may be a mental surrender of habits fixed
seemingly in indelible colors in the soul and a sudden, inflexible
decision to be a man, as in the case of _Markheim;_ or it may be a
gradual realization of the value of spiritual gifts, as Björnson has
concisely presented it in his little story _The Father_.

The aim of the short-story is always to present a cross-section of life
in such a vivid manner that the importance of the incident becomes
universal. Some short-stories are told with the definite end in view of
telling a story for the sake of exploiting a plot. _The Cask of
Amontillado_ is all action in comparison with _The Masque of the Red
Death. The Gold-Bug_ sets for itself the task of solving a puzzle and
possesses action from first to last. Other stories teach a moral.
_Ethan Brand_ deals with the unpardonable sin, and _The Great Stone
Face_ is our classic story in the field of ideals and their
development. Hawthorne, above all writers, is most interested in
ethical laws and moral development. Still other stories aim to portray
character. Miss Jewett and Mrs. Freeman veraciously picture the
faded-put womanhood in New England; Henry James and Björnson turn the
x-rays of psychology and sociology on their characters; Stevenson
follows with the precision of the tick of a watch the steps in
Markheim's mental evolution.

The types of the short-story are as varied as life itself. Addison,
Lamb, Irving, Warner, and many others have used the story in their
sketches and essays with wonderful effect. _The Legend of Sleepy
Hollow_ is as impressive as any of Scott's tales. The allegory in _The
Great Stone Face_ loses little or nothing when compared with Bunyan's
_Pilgrim's Progress_. No better type of detective story has been
written than the two short-stories, _The Murders in the Rue Morgue_ and
_The Purloined Letter_. Every emotion is subject to the call of the
short-story. Humor with its expansive free air is not so well adapted
to the short-story as is pathos. There is a sadness in the stories of
Dickens, Garland, Page, Mrs. Freeman, Miss Jewett, Maupassant, Poe, and
many others that runs the whole gamut from pleasing tenderness in _A
Child's Dream of a Star_ to unutterable horror in _The Fall of the
House of Usher_.

The short-story is stripped of all the incongruities that led Fielding,
Scott, and Dickens far afield. All its parts harmonize in the simplest
manner to give unity and "totality" of impression through strict unity
of form. It is a concentrated piece of life snatched from the ordinary
and uneventful round of living and steeped in fancy until it becomes
the acme of literary art.




COMPOSITION OF THE SHORT-STORY

Any student who wishes to express himself correctly and pleasingly, and
desires a keener sense for the appreciation of literary work must
write. The way others have done the thing never appears in a forceful
light until one sets himself at a task of like nature. Just so in the
study of this text. To find and appreciate the better points of the
short-story, students must write stories of their own, patterned in a
small way on the technique of the masterpieces.

The process of short-story writing follows in a general way the
following program. In the first place the class must have something
interesting and suggestive to write about. Sometimes the class can
suggest a subject; newspapers almost every day give incidents worthy of
story treatment; happenings in the community often give the very best
material for stories; and phases of the literature work may well be
used in the development of students' themes. Change the type of
character and place, reconstruct the plot, or require a different
ending for the story, leaving the plot virtually as it is, and then
assign to the class. Boys and girls should invariably be taught to see
stories in the life about them, in the newspapers and magazines on
their library tables, and in the masterpieces they study in their class
work.

After the idea that the class wishes to develop has been definitely
determined and the material for this development has been gathered and
grouped about the idea, the class should select a viewpoint and proceed
to write. Sometimes the author should tell the story, sometimes a third
person who may be of secondary importance in the story should be given
the rôle of the story-teller, sometimes the whole may be in dialogue.
The class should choose a fitting method.

Young writers should be very careful about the beginning of a story. An
action story should start with a striking incident that catches the
reader's attention at once and forecasts subsequent happenings. In
every case this first incident must have in it the essence of the end
of the story and should be perfectly logical to the reader after he has
finished the reading. A story in which the setting is emphasized can
well begin, with a description and contain a number of descriptions and
expositions, distributed with a sense of propriety throughout the
theme. A good method to use in the opening of a character story is that
of conversation. An excellent example of a sharp use of this device is
Mrs. Freeman's _Revolt of Mother_, where the first paragraph is a
single spoken word.

Every incident included in the story should be tested for its value in
the development of the theme. An incident that does not amplify certain
phases of the story has no right to be included, and great care should
be used in an effort to incorporate just the material necessary for the
proper evolution of the thought. The problem is not so much what can be
secured to be included in the story, but rather, after making a
thorough collection of the material, what of all these points should be
cast out.

The ending must be a natural outgrowth of the development found in the
body of the composition. Even in a story with a surprise ending, of
which we are tempted to say that we have had no preparation for such a
turn in the story, there must be hints—the subtler the better—that
point unerringly and always toward the end. The end is presupposed in
the beginning and the changing of one means the altering of the other.

Young writers have trouble in stopping at the right place. They should
learn, as soon as possible, that to drag on after the logical ending
has been reached spoils the best of stories. It is just as bad to stop
before arriving at the true end. In other words there is only one place
for the ending of a story, and in no case can it be shifted without
ruining the idea that has obtained throughout the theme.

There are certain steps in the development of story-writing that should
be followed if the best results are to be obtained. The first
assignment should require only the writing of straight narrative. _The
Arabian Nights Tales_ and children's stories represent this type of
writing and will give the teacher valuable aid in the presentation of
this work. After the students have produced simple stories resembling
the Sinbad Voyages, they should next add descriptions of persons and
places and explanations of situations to develop clearness and interest
in their original productions. Taking these themes in turn students
should be required to introduce plot incidents that complicate the
simple happenings and divert the straightforward trend of the
narrative. Now that the stories are well developed in their
descriptions, expositions, and plot interests they should be tested for
their emotional effects. Students should go through their themes, and
by making the proper changes give in some cases a humorous and in
others a pathetic or tragic effect. These few suggestions are given to
emphasize the facts that no one conceives a story in all its details in
a moment of inspiration, and that there is a way of proceeding that
passes in logical gradations from the simplest to the most complex
phases of story writing.

Franklin and Stevenson knew no rules for writing other than to practice
incessantly on some form they wished to imitate. Hard work is the first
lesson that boys and girls must learn in the art of writing, and a
systematic gradation of assignments is what the teacher must provide
for his students. Walter Besant gave the following rules for novel
writers. Some of them may be suggestive to writers of the high school
age, so the list is given in its complete form. "(1) Practice writing
something original every day. (2) Cultivate the habit of observation.
(3) Work regularly at certain hours. (4) Read no rubbish. (5) Aim at
the formation of style. (6) Endeavor to be dramatic. (7) A great
element of dramatic skill is selection. (8) Avoid the sin of writing
about a character. (9) Never attempt to describe any kind of life
except that with which you are familiar. (10) Learn as much as you can
about men and women. (11) For the sake of forming a good natural style,
and acquiring command of language, write poetry."




SHORT-STORY LIBRARY

_BOOKS FOR REFERENCE_:

_American Short-Stories_, Charles Baldwin, Longmans, Green, & Co.

_A Study of Prose Fiction_, Chapter XII, Bliss Perry, Houghton, Mifflin
Co.

_Composition Rhetoric_, T.C. Blaisdell, American Book Co.

_Forms of Prose Literature_, J.H. Gardiner, Charles Scribner's Sons.

_Materials and Methods of Fiction_, Clayton Hamilton, The Baker and
Taylor Co.

_Principles of Literary Criticism_, C.T. Winchester, The Macmillan Co.

_Short-Story Writing_, C.R. Barrett. The Baker and Taylor Co.

_Specimens of the Short-Story_, G.H. Nettleton, H. Holt & Co.

_Story-Writing and Journalism_, Sherwin Cody, Funk & Wagnalls Co.

_Talks on Writing English_, Arlo Bates, Houghton Mifflin Co.

_The Writing of the Short-Story_, L.W. Smith, D.C. Heath & Co.

_The Philosophy of the Short-Story_, Brander Matthews, Longmans, Green,
& Co.

_The World's Greatest Short-Stories_, Sherwin Cody, A.C. McClurg & Co.

_The Short-Story_, Henry Canby, Henry Holt & Co.

_The Short-Story_, Evelyn May Albright, The Macmillan Co.

_The Book of the Short-Story_, Jessup and Canby, D. Appleton & Co.

_Modern Masterpieces of Short Prose Fiction_, Waite and Taylor, D.
Appleton & Co.

_The Short-Story_, Brander Matthews, American Book Co.

_Writing the Short-Story_, Esenwein, Hinds, Noble & Eldredge.

_A Study of the Short-Story in English_, Henry Seidel Canby, Henry Holt
& Co.




COLLECTIONS OF SHORT-STORIES:

_American Short-Stories_, Charles S. Baldwin, Longmans, Green, & Co.

_Great Short-Stories_, 3 vols., William Patten, P.F. Collier & Son.

_Little French Masterpieces_, 6 vols. Alexander Jessup, G.P. Putnam's
Sons.

_Short-Story Classics_ (American), 5 vols., William Patten, P.F.
Collier & Son.

_Short-Story Classics_ (Foreign), 5 vols., William Patten, P.F. Collier
& Son.

_Stories by American Authors_, 10 vols., Charles Scribner's Sons.

_Stories by English Authors_, 10 vols., Charles Scribner's Sons.

_Stories by Foreign Authors_, 10 vols., Charles Scribner's Sons.

_Stories New and Old_ (American and English), Hamilton W. Mabie, The
Macmillan Co.

_World's Greatest Short-Stories_, Sherwin Cody, A.C. McClurg & Co.

_The American Short-Story_, Elias Lieberman.




THE FATHER[1]


_By Björnstjerne Björnson (1838-1910)_


The man whose story is here to be told was the wealthiest and most
influential person in his parish; his name was Thord Överaas. He
appeared in the priest's study one day, tall and earnest.

"I have gotten a son," said he, "and I wish to present him for
baptism."

"What shall his name be?"

"Finn,—after my father."

"And the sponsors?"

They were mentioned, and proved to be the best men and women of Thord's
relations in the parish.

"Is there anything else?" inquired the priest, and looked up. The
peasant hesitated a little.

"I should like very much to have him baptized by himself," said he,
finally.

"That is to say on a week-day?"

"Next Saturday, at twelve o'clock noon."

"Is there anything else?" inquired the priest,

"There is nothing else;" and the peasant twirled his cap, as though he
were about to go.

Then the priest rose. "There is yet this, however." said he, and
walking toward Thord, he took him by the hand and looked gravely into
his eyes: "God grant that the child may become a blessing to you!"

One day sixteen years later, Thord stood once more in the priest's
study.

"Really, you carry your age astonishingly well, Thord," said the
priest; for he saw no change whatever in the man.

"That is because I have no troubles," replied Thord. To this the priest
said nothing, but after a while he asked: "What is your pleasure this
evening?"

"I have come this evening about that son of mine who is to be confirmed
to-morrow."

"He is a bright boy."

"I did not wish to pay the priest until I heard what number the boy
would have when he takes his place in the church to-morrow."

"He will stand number one."

"So I have heard; and here are ten dollars for the priest."

"Is there anything else I can do for you?" inquired the priest, fixing
his eyes on Thord.

"There is nothing else."

Thord went out.

Eight years more rolled by, and then one day a noise was heard outside
of the priest's study, for many men were approaching, and at their head
was Thord, who entered first.

The priest looked up and recognized him.

"You come well attended this evening, Thord," said he.

"I am here to request that the banns may be published for my son: he is
about to marry Karen Storliden, daughter of Gudmund, who stands here
beside me."

"Why, that is the richest girl in the parish."

"So they say," replied the peasant, stroking back his hair with one
hand.

The priest sat a while as if in deep thought, then entered the names in
his book, without making any comments, and the men wrote their
signatures underneath. Thord laid three dollars on the table.

"One is all I am to have," said the priest.

"I know that very well; but he is my only child; I want to do it
handsomely."

The priest took the money.

"This is now the third time, Thord, that you have come here on your
son's account."

"But now I am through with him," said Thord, and folding up his
pocket-book he said farewell and walked away.

The men slowly followed him.

A fortnight later, the father and son were rowing across the lake, one
calm, still day, to Storliden to make arrangements for the wedding.

"This thwart[2] is not secure," said the son, and stood up to
straighten the seat on which he was sitting.

At the same moment the board he was standing on slipped from under him;
he threw out his arms, uttered a shriek, and fell overboard.

"Take hold of the oar!" shouted the father, springing to his feet, and
holding out the oar.

But when the son had made a couple of efforts he grew stiff.

"Wait a moment!" cried the father, and began to row toward his son.

Then the son rolled over on his back, gave his father one long look,
and sank.

Thord could scarcely believe it; he held the boat still, and stared at
the spot where his son had gone down, as though he must surely come to
the surface again. There rose some bubbles, then some more, and finally
one large one that burst; and the lake lay there as smooth and bright
as a mirror again.

For three days and three nights people saw the father rowing round and
round the spot, without taking either food or sleep; he was dragging
the lake for the body of his son. And toward morning of the third day
he found it, and carried it in his arms up over the hills to his
gard[3].

It might have been about a year from that day, when the priest, late
one autumn evening, heard some one in the passage outside of the door,
carefully trying to find the latch. The priest opened the door, and in
walked a tall, thin man, with bowed form and white hair. The priest
looked long at him before he recognized him. It was Thord.

"Are you out walking so late?" said the priest, and stood still in
front of him.

"Ah, yes! it is late," said Thord, and took a seat.

The priest sat down also, as though waiting. A long, long silence
followed. At last Thord said,—

"I have something with me that I should like to give to the poor; I
want it to be invested as a legacy in my son's name."

He rose, laid some money on the table, and sat down again. The priest
counted it.

"It is a great deal of money," said he.

"It is half the price of my gard. I sold it to-day."

The priest sat long in silence. At last he asked, but gently,—

"What do you propose to do now, Thord?"

"Something better."

They sat there for a while, Thord with downcast eyes, the priest with
his eyes fixed on Thord. Presently the priest said, slowly and softly,—

"I think your son has at last brought you a true blessing."

"Yes, I think so myself," said Thord, looking up, while two big tears
coursed slowly down his cheeks.

NOTES

[1] This story was written in 1860. Translated from the Norwegian by
Professor Rasmus B. Anderson. It is printed by permission of and
special arrangement with _Houghton Mifflin Co._, publishers.

[2] 3:28 thwart. A seat, across a boat, on which the oarsman, sits.

[3] 4:21 gard. A Norwegian farm.

BIOGRAPHY

Björnstjerne Björnson, Norse poet, novelist, dramatist, orator, and
political leader, was born December 8, 1832, and died in Paris, April
26, 1910. From his strenuous father, a Lutheran priest who preached
with tongue and fist, he inherited the physique of a Norse god. He
possessed the mind of a poet and the arm of a warrior. At the age of
twelve he was sent to the Molde grammar school, where he proved himself
a very dull student. In 1852 he entered the university in Christiana.
Here he neglected his studies to write poetry and journalistic
articles.

In politics Björnson was a tremendous force. Dr. Brandes has said; "To
speak the name of Björnson is like hoisting the colors of Norway." He
was honored as a king in his native land. He won this recognition by no
party affiliation, but by his natural gifts as a poet. His magnetic
eloquence, great message, and sterling character compelled his
countrymen to follow and honor him. He says of his success in this
field: "The secret with me is that in success as in failure, in the
consciousness of my doing as in my habits, I am myself. There are a
great many who dare not, or lack the ability, to be themselves." For
his views on political issues the following references may well be
used: _Independent_. January 31, 1901, pp. 253-257; _Current
Literature_, November, 1906, p. 581; and _Independent_, July 13, 1905,
pp. 92-94.

Björnson and Ibsen, the two foremost men of Norway, were very closely
associated throughout life. They were schoolmates, and both were
interested in writing and producing plays. Ibsen's son, Dr. Sigurd
Ibsen, married Björnson's daughter, Bergilot. These two great writers
were direct contrasts in nearly everything: Björnson lived among his
people, Ibsen was reserved; Björnson played the rôle of an optimistic
prophet, Ibsen, that of a pessimistic judge; the former was always a
conciliatory spirit, the latter a revolutionist; and Björnson proved
himself a patriotic Norwegian, Ibsen, a man of the entire world.

Lack of space forbids the inclusion of a list of Björnson's writing's.
High school teachers will find suitable selections in the list of
collateral readings that follows. Those who wish a complete
bibliography of his works will find it in _Bookman_, Volume II, p. 65.
Translations of his works by Rasmus B. Anderson, Houghton Mifflin Co.,
and Edmund Gosse, the Macmillan Co., will furnish students extensive
and standard readings of this master story-teller.

CRITICISMS

Björnson, in his masterly character delineations, seldom produces
portraits. He gives the reader suggestive glimpses often enough and of
the right quality and arrangement to produce a full and vigorous
conception of his characters. His female parts are especially well
done. His characters present themselves to the reader by unique
thinking and choice expressions. Students should analyze _The Father_
for this phase of character building. Note also the simplicity of the
words, sentences, paragraphs, and complete story arrangement, the
author's originality of story conception and expression, his short,
passionate, panting sentences, the poetic atmosphere that sweetens and
enriches his virile writing, and the correct, religious pictures he
paints of his beloved northland.

After having read a number of selections from Björnson, students will
see that he has a wonderful breadth of treatment for every imaginable
subject. He is so universal in his choice of subjects that Lemaître in
his _Impressions of the Theatre_ half-humorously and half-ironically
puts these words in Björnson's mouth, "I am king in the spiritual
kingdom," and "there are two men in Europe who have genius, I and
Ibsen, granting that Ibsen has it."

GENERAL REFERENCES

_Adventures in Criticism_, A.T.Q. Couch.

_Essays on Modern Novelists_, William Lyon Phelps.

"Björnsoniana," _Dial_, January 16, 1903, pp. 37-38.

"Prophet-Poet of Norway," _Cosmopolitan_, April, 1903, pp. 621-631.

"Three Score and Ten," _Dial_, December, 1902, pp. 383-385.

COLLATERAL READINGS

_Lectures_, Volume I, John L. Stoddard.

_The Making of an American_, Chapters 1, 7, and Jacob Riis.

_Myths of Northern Lands_. Guerber.

_Synnove Solbakken_, Björnson.

_A Happy Boy_, Björnson.

_The Fisher Maiden_, Björnson.

_The Bridal March_, Björnson.

_Magnhild_, Björnson.

_A Dangerous Wooing_, Björnson.

_The Eagle's Nest_, Björnson.

_The Bear Hunter_, Björnson.

_Master and Man_, Leo Tolstoi.

_The Doll's House_, Henrik Ibsen.

_The Minister's Black Veil_, Nathaniel Hawthorne.

_The Ambitious Guest_, Nathaniel Hawthorne.

_The Beeman of Orn_, Frank R. Stockton.

_A Branch Road_, Hamlin Garland.

_Mateo Falcone_, Prosper Mérimée.

_The Death of the Dauphin_, Alphonse Dadoed.

_The Birds' Christmas Carol_, Kate Douglas Wiggin.

_Tennessee's Partner_, Bret Harte.




THE GRIFFIN AND THE MINOR CANAAN[1]


_By Frank R. Stockton (1834-1902)_


Over the great door of an old, old church which stood in a quiet town
of a far-away land there was carved in stone the figure of a large
griffin. The old-time sculptor had done his work with great care, but
the image he had made was not a pleasant one to look at. It had a large
head, with enormous open mouth and savage teeth; from its back arose
great wings, armed with sharp hooks and prongs; it had stout legs in
front, with projecting claws; but there were no legs behind,—the body
running out into a long and powerful tail, finished off at the end with
a barbed point. This tail was coiled up under him, the end sticking up
just back of his wings.

The sculptor, or the people who had ordered this stone figure, had
evidently been very much pleased with it, for little copies of it, also
in stone, had been placed here and there along the sides of the church,
not very far from the ground, so that people could easily look at them,
and ponder on their curious forms. There were a great many other
sculptures on the outside of this church,—saints, martyrs, grotesque
heads of men, beasts, and birds, as well as those of other creatures
which cannot be named, because nobody knows exactly what they were; but
none were so curious and interesting as the great griffin over the
door, and the little griffins on the sides of the church.

A long, long distance from the town, in the midst of dreadful wilds
scarcely known to man, there dwelt the Griffin whose image had been put
up over the churchgoer. In some way or other, the old-time sculptor had
seen him, and afterward, to the best of his memory, had copied his
figure in stone. The Griffin had never known this, until, hundreds of
years afterward, he heard from a bird, from a wild animal, or in some
manner which it is not now easy to find out, that there was a likeness
of him on the old church in the distant town. Now this Griffin had no
idea how he looked. He had never seen a mirror, and the streams where
he lived were so turbulent and violent that a quiet piece of water,
which would reflect the image of anything looking into it, could not be
found. Being, as far as could be ascertained, the very last of his
race, he had never seen another griffin. Therefore it was, that, when
he heard of this stone image of himself, he became very anxious to know
what he looked like, and at last he determined to go to the old church,
and see for himself what manner of being he was. So he started off from
the dreadful wilds, and flew on and on until he came to the countries
inhabited by men, where his appearance in the air created great
consternation; but he alighted nowhere, keeping up a steady flight
until he reached the suburbs of the town which had his image on its
church. Here, late in the afternoon, he alighted in a green meadow by
the side of a brook, and stretched himself on the grass to rest. His
great wings were tired, for he had not made such a long flight in a
century, or more.

The news of his coming spread quickly over the town, and the people,
frightened nearly out of their wits by the arrival of so extraordinary
a visitor, fled into their houses, and shut themselves up. The Griffin
called loudly for some one to come to him, but the more he called, the
more afraid the people were to show themselves. At length he saw two
laborers hurrying to their homes through the fields, and in a terrible
voice he commanded them to stop. Not daring to disobey, the men stood,
trembling.

"What is the matter with you all?" cried the Griffin. "Is there not a
man in your town who is brave enough to speak to me?"

"I think," said one of the laborers, his voice shaking so that his
words could hardly be understood, "that—perhaps—the Minor Canon—would
come."

"Go, call him, then!" said the Griffin; "I want to see him."

The Minor Canon, who filled a subordinate position in the church, had
just finished the afternoon services, and was coming out of a side
door, with three aged women who had formed the week-day congregation.
He was a young man of a kind disposition, and very anxious to do good
to the people of the town. Apart from his duties in the church, where
he conducted services every week-day, he visited the sick and the poor,
counseled and assisted persons who were in trouble, and taught a school
composed entirely of the bad children in the town with whom nobody else
would have anything to do. Whenever the people wanted something
difficult done for them, they always went to the Minor Canon. Thus it
was that the laborer thought of the young priest when he found that
some one must come and speak to the Griffin.

The Minor Canon had not heard of the strange event, which was known to
the whole town except himself and the three old women, and when he was
informed of it, and was told that the Griffin had asked to see him, he
was greatly amazed, and frightened.

"Me!" he exclaimed. "He has never heard of me! What should he want with
_me?_"

"Oh! you must go instantly!" cried the two men.

"He is very angry now because he has been kept waiting so long; and
nobody knows what may happen if you don't hurry to him."

The poor Minor Canon would rather have had his hand cut off than go out
to meet an angry griffin; but he felt that it was his duty to go, or it
would be a woeful thing if injury should come to the people of the town
because he was not brave enough to obey the summons of the Griffin.

So, pale and frightened, he started off.

"Well," said the Griffin, as soon as the young man came near, "I am
glad to see that there is some one who has the courage to come to me."

The Minor Canon did not feel very courageous, but he bowed his head.

"Is this the town," said the Griffin, "where there is a church with a
likeness of myself over one of the doors?"

The Minor Canon looked at the frightful creature before him and saw
that it was, without doubt, exactly like the stone image on the church.
"Yes," he said, "you are right."

"Well, then," said the Griffin, "will you take me to it? I wish very
much to see it."

The Minor Canon instantly thought that if the Griffin entered the town
without the people knowing what he came for, some of them would
probably be frightened to death, and so he sought to gain time to
prepare their minds.

"It is growing dark, now," he said, very much afraid, as he spoke, that
his words might enrage the Griffin, "and objects on the front of the
church cannot be seen clearly. It will be better to wait until morning,
if you wish to get a good view of the stone image of yourself."

"That will suit me very well," said the Griffin. "I see you are a man
of good sense. I am tired, and I will take a nap here on this soft
grass, while I cool my tail in the little stream that runs near me. The
end of my tail gets red-hot when I am angry or excited, and it is quite
warm now. So you may go, but be sure and come early to-morrow morning,
and show me the way to the church."

The Minor Canon was glad enough to take his leave, and hurried into the
town. In front of the church he found a great many people assembled to
hear his report of his interview with the Griffin. When they found that
he had not come to spread ruin and devastation, but simply to see his
stony likeness on the church, they showed neither relief nor
gratification, but began to upbraid the Minor Canon for consenting to
conduct the creature into the town.

"What could I do?" cried the young man, "If I should not bring him he
would come himself and, perhaps, end by setting fire to the town with
his red-hot tail."

Still the people were not satisfied, and a great many plans were
proposed to prevent the Griffin from coming into the town. Some elderly
persons urged that the young men should go out and kill him; but the
young men scoffed at such a ridiculous idea. Then some one said that it
would be a good thing to destroy the stone image so that the Griffin
would have no excuse for entering the town; and this proposal was
received with such favor that many of the people ran for hammers,
chisels, and crowbars, with which to tear down and break up the stone
griffin. But the Minor Canon resisted this plan with all the strength
of his mind and body. He assured the people that this action would
enrage the Griffin beyond measure, for it would be impossible to
conceal from him that his image had been destroyed during the night.
But the people were so determined to break up the stone griffin that
the Minor Canon saw that there was nothing for him to do but to stay
there and protect it. All night he walked up and down in front of the
church-door, keeping away the men who brought ladders, by which they
might mount to the great stone griffin, and knock it to pieces with
their hammers and crowbars. After many hours the people were obliged to
give up their attempts, and went home to sleep; but the Minor Canon
remained at his post till early morning, and then he hurried away to
the field where he had left the Griffin.

The monster had just awakened, and rising to his fore-legs and shaking
himself, he said that he was ready to go into the town. The Minor
Canon, therefore, walked back, the Griffin flying slowly through the
air, at a short distance above the head of his guide. Not a person was
to be seen in the streets, and they proceeded directly to the front of
the church, where the Minor Canon pointed out the stone griffin.

The real Griffin settled down in the little square before the church
and gazed earnestly at his sculptured likeness. For a long time he
looked at it. First he put his head on one side, and then he put it on
the other; then he shut his right eye and gazed with his left, after
which he shut his left eye and gazed with his right. Then he moved a
little to one side and looked at the image, then he moved the other
way. After a while he said to the Minor Canon, who had been standing by
all this time:

"It is, it must be, an excellent likeness! That breadth between the
eyes, that expansive forehead, those massive jaws! I feel that it must
resemble me. If there is any fault to find with it, it is that the neck
seems a little stiff. But that is nothing. It is an admirable
likeness,—admirable!"

The Griffin sat looking at his image all the morning and all the
afternoon. The Minor Canon had been afraid to go away and leave him,
and had hoped all through the day that he would soon be satisfied with
his inspection and fly away home. But by evening the poor young man was
utterly exhausted, and felt that he must eat and sleep. He frankly
admitted this fact to the Griffin, and asked him if he would not like
something to eat. He said this because he felt obliged in politeness to
do so, but as soon as he had spoken the words, he was seized with dread
lest the monster should demand half a dozen babies, or some tempting
repast of that kind.

"Oh, no," said the Griffin, "I never eat between the equinoxes. At the
vernal and at the autumnal equinox I take a good meal, and that lasts
me for half a year. I am extremely regular in my habits, and do not
think it healthful to eat at odd times. But if you need food, go and
get it, and I will return to the soft grass where I slept last night
and take another nap."

The next day the Griffin came again to the little square before the
church, and remained there until evening, steadfastly regarding the
stone griffin over the door. The Minor Canon came once or twice to look
at him, and the Griffin seemed very glad to see him; but the young
clergyman could not stay as he had done before, for he had many duties
to perform. Nobody went to the church, but the people came to the Minor
Canon's house, and anxiously asked him how long the Griffin was going
to stay.

"I do not know," he answered, "but I think he will soon be satisfied
with regarding his stone likeness, and then he will go away."

But the Griffin did not go away. Morning after morning he came to the
church, but after a time he did not stay there all day. He seemed to
have taken a great fancy to the Minor Canon, and followed him about as
he pursued his various avocations. He would wait for him at the side
door of the church, for the Minor Canon held services every day,
morning and evening, though nobody came now. "If any one should come,"
he said to himself, "I must be found at my post." When the young man
came out, the Griffin would accompany him in his visits to the sick and
the poor, and would often look into the windows of the schoolhouse
where the Minor Canon was teaching his unruly scholars. All the other
schools were closed, but the parents of the Minor Canon's scholars
forced them to go to school, because they were so bad they could not
endure them all day at home,—griffin or no griffin. But it must be said
they generally behaved very well when that great monster sat up on his
tail and looked in at the schoolroom window.

When it was perceived that the Griffin showed no signs of going away,
all the people who were able to do so left the town. The canons and the
higher officers of the church had fled away during the first day of the
Griffin's visit, leaving behind only the Minor Canon and some of the
men who opened the doors and swept the church. All the citizens who
could afford it shut up their houses and travelled to distant parts,
and only the working people and the poor were left behind. After some
days these ventured to go about and attend to their business, for if
they did not work they would starve. They were getting a little used to
seeing the Griffin, and having been told that he did not eat between
equinoxes, they did not feel so much afraid of him as before. Day by
day the Griffin became more and more attached to the Minor Canon. He
kept near him a great part of the time, and often spent the night in
front of the little house where the young clergyman lived alone. This
strange companionship was often burdensome to the Minor Canon; but, on
the other hand, he could not deny that he derived a great deal of
benefit and instruction from it. The Griffin had lived for hundreds of
years, and had seen much; and he told the Minor Canon many wonderful
things.

"It is like reading an old book," said the young clergyman to himself;
"but how many books I would have had to read before I would have found
out what the Griffin has told me about the earth, the air, the water,
about minerals, and metals, and growing things, and all the wonders of
the world!"

Thus the summer went on, and drew toward its close. And now the people
of the town began to be very much troubled again.

"It will not be long," they said, "before the autumnal equinox is here,
and then that monster will want to eat. He will be dreadfully hungry,
for he has taken so much exercise since his last meal. He will devour
our children. Without doubt, he will eat them all. What is to be done?"

To this question no one could give an answer, but all agreed that the
Griffin must not be allowed to remain until the approaching equinox.
After talking over the matter a great deal, a crowd of the people went
to the Minor Canon, at a time when the Griffin was not with him.

"It is all your fault," they said, "that that monster is among us. You
brought him here, and you ought to see that he goes away. It is only on
your account that he stays here at all, for, although he visits his
image every day, he is with you the greater part of the time. If you
were not here, he would not stay. It is your duty to go away and then
he will follow you, and we shall be free from the dreadful danger which
hangs over us."

"Go away!" cried the Minor Canon, greatly grieved at being spoken to in
such a way. "Where shall I go? If I go to some other town, shall I not
take this trouble there? Have I a right to do that?"

"No," said the people, "you must not go to any other town. There is no
town far enough away. You must go to the dreadful wilds where the
Griffin lives; and then he will follow you and stay there."

They did not say whether or not they expected the Minor Canon to stay
there also, and he did not ask them any thing about it. He bowed his
head, and went into his house, to think. The more he thought, the more
clear it became to his mind that it was his duty to go away, and thus
free the town from the presence of the Griffin.

That evening he packed a leathern bag full of bread and meat, and early
the next morning he set out on his journey to the dreadful wilds. It
was a long, weary, and doleful journey, especially after he had gone
beyond the habitations of men, but the Minor Canon kept on bravely, and
never faltered. The way was longer than he had expected, and his
provisions soon grew so scanty that he was obliged to eat but a little
every day, but he kept up his courage, and pressed on, and, after many
days of toilsome travel, he reached the dreadful wilds.

When the Griffin found that the Minor Canon had left the town he seemed
sorry, but showed no disposition to go and look for him. After a few
days had passed, he became much annoyed, and asked some of the people
where the Minor Canon had gone. But, although the citizens had been
anxious that the young clergyman should go to the dreadful wilds,
thinking that the Griffin would immediately follow him, they were now
afraid to mention the Minor Canon's destination, for the monster seemed
angry already, and, if he should suspect their trick, he would
doubtless become very much enraged. So every one said he did not know,
and the Griffin wandered about disconsolate. One morning he looked into
the Minor Canon's schoolhouse, which was always empty now, and thought
that it was a shame that every thing should suffer on account of the
young man's absence.

"It does not matter so much about the church," he said, "for nobody
went there; but it is a pity about the school. I think I will teach it
myself until he returns."

It was the hour for opening the school, and the Griffin went inside and
pulled the rope which rang the schoolbell. Some of the children who
heard the bell ran in to see what was the matter, supposing it to be a
joke of one of their companions; but when they saw the Griffin they
stood astonished, and scared.

"Go tell the other scholars," said the monster, "that school is about
to open, and that if they are not all here in ten minutes, I shall come
after them." In seven minutes every scholar was in place.

Never was seen such an orderly school. Not a boy or girl moved, or
uttered a whisper. The Griffin climbed into the master's seat, his wide
wings spread on each side of him, because he could not lean back in his
chair while they stuck out behind, and his great tail coiled around, in
front of the desk, the barbed end sticking up, ready to tap any boy or
girl who might misbehave. The Griffin now addressed the scholars,
telling them that he intended to teach them while their master was
away. In speaking he endeavored to imitate, as far as possible, the
mild and gentle tones of the Minor Canon, but it must be admitted that
in this he was not very successful. He had paid a good deal of
attention to the studies of the school, and he determined not to
attempt to teach them anything new, but to review them in what they had
been studying; so he called up the various classes, and questioned them
upon their previous lessons. The children racked their brains to
remember what they had learned. They were so afraid of the Griffin's
displeasure that they recited as they had never recited before. One of
the boys far down in his class answered so well that the Griffin was
astonished.

"I should think you would be at the head," said he. "I am sure you have
never been in the habit of reciting so well. Why is this?"

"Because I did not choose to take the trouble," said the boy, trembling
in his boots. He felt obliged to speak the truth, for all the children
thought that the great eyes of the Griffin could see right through
them, and that he would know when they told a falsehood.

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself," said the Griffin. "Go down to
the very tail of the class, and if you are not at the head in two days,
I shall know the reason why."

The next afternoon the boy was number one.

It was astonishing how much these children now learned of what they had
been studying. It was as if they had been educated over again. The
Griffin used no severity toward them, but there was a look about him
which made them unwilling to go to bed until they were sure they knew
their lessons for the next day.

The Griffin now thought that he ought to visit the sick and the poor;
and he began to go about the town for this purpose. The effect upon the
sick was miraculous. All, except those who were very ill indeed, jumped
from their beds when they heard he was coming, and declared themselves
quite well. To those who could not get up, he gave herbs and roots,
which none of them had ever before thought of as medicines, but which
the Griffin had seen used in various parts of the world; and most of
them recovered. But, for all that, they afterward said that no matter
what happened to them, they hoped that they should never again have
such a doctor coming to their bedsides, feeling their pulses and
looking at their tongues.

As for the poor, they seemed to have utterly disappeared. All those who
had depended upon charity for their daily bread were now at work in
some way or other; many of them offering to do odd jobs for their
neighbors just for the sake of their meals,—a thing which before had
been seldom heard of in the town. The Griffin could find no one who
needed his assistance.

The summer had now passed, and the autumnal equinox was rapidly
approaching. The citizens were in a state of great alarm and anxiety.
The Griffin showed no signs of going away, but seemed to have settled
himself permanently among them. In a short time, the day for his
semi-annual meal would arrive, and then what would happen? The monster
would certainly be very hungry, and would devour all their children.

Now they greatly regretted and lamented that they had sent away the
Minor Canon; he was the only one on whom they could have depended in
this trouble, for he could talk freely with the Griffin, and so find
out what could be done. But it would not do to be inactive. Some step
must be taken immediately. A meeting of the citizens was called, and
two old men were appointed to go and talk to the Griffin. They were
instructed to offer to prepare a splendid dinner for him on equinox
day,—one which would entirely satisfy his hunger. They would offer him
the fattest mutton, the most tender beef, fish, and game of various
sorts, and any thing of the kind that he might fancy. If none of these
suited, they were to mention that there was an orphan asylum in the
next town.

"Any thing would be better," said the citizens, "than to have our dear
children devoured."

The old men went to the Griffin, but their propositions were not
received with favor.

"From what I have seen of the people of this town," said the monster,
"I do not think I could relish any thing which was prepared by them.
They appear to be all cowards, and, therefore, mean and selfish. As for
eating one of them, old or young, I could not think of it for a moment.
In fact, there was only one creature in the whole place for whom I
could have had any appetite, and that is the Minor Canon, who has gone
away. He was brave, and good, and honest, and I think I should have
relished him."

"Ah!" said one of the old men very politely, "in that case I wish we
had not sent him to the dreadful wilds!"

"What!" cried the Griffin. "What do you mean? Explain instantly what
you are talking about!"

The old man, terribly frightened at what he had said, was obliged to
tell how the Minor Canon had been sent away by the people, in the hope
that the Griffin might be induced to follow him.

When the monster heard this, he became furiously angry. He dashed away
from the old men and, spreading his wings, flew backward and forward
over the town. He was so much excited that his tail became red-hot, and
glowed like a meteor against the evening sky. When at last he settled
down in the little field where he usually rested, and thrust his tail
into the brook, the steam arose like a cloud, and the water of the
stream ran hot through the town. The citizens were greatly frightened,
and bitterly blamed the old man for telling about the Minor Canon.

"It is plain," they said, "that the Griffin intended at last to go and
look for him, and we should have been saved. Now who can tell what
misery you have brought upon us."

The Griffin did not remain long in the little field. As soon as his
tail was cool he flew to the town-hall and rang the bell. The citizens
knew that they were expected to come there, and although they were
afraid to go, they were still more afraid to stay away; and they
crowded into the hall. The Griffin was on the platform at one end,
flapping his wings and walking up and down, and the end of his tail was
still so warm that it slightly scorched the boards as he dragged it
after him.

When everybody who was able to come was there the Griffin stood still
and addressed the meeting.

"I have had a contemptible opinion of you," he said, "ever since I
discovered what cowards you are, but I had no idea that you were so
ungrateful, selfish, and cruel as I now find you to be. Here was your
Minor Canon, who labored day and night for your good, and thought of
nothing else but how he might benefit you and make you happy; and as
soon as you imagine yourselves threatened with a danger,—for well I
know you are dreadfully afraid of me,—you send him off, caring not
whether he returns or perishes, hoping thereby to save yourselves. Now,
I had conceived a great liking for that young man, and had intended, in
a day or two, to go and look him up. But I have changed my mind about
him. I shall go and find him, but I shall send him back here to live
among you, and I intend that he shall enjoy the reward of his labor and
his sacrifices. Go, some of you, to the officers of the church, who so
cowardly ran away when I first came here, and tell them never to return
to this town under penalty of death. And if, when your Minor Canon
comes back to you, you do not bow yourselves before him, put him in the
highest place among you, and serve and honor him all his life, beware
of my terrible vengeance! There were only two good things in this town:
the Minor Canon and the stone image of myself over your church-door.
One of these you have sent away, and the other I shall carry away
myself."

With these words he dismissed the meeting, and it was time, for the end
of his tail had become so hot that there was danger of its setting fire
to the building.

The next morning, the Griffin came to the church, and tearing the stone
image of himself from its fastenings over the great door, he grasped it
with his powerful fore-legs and flew up into the air. Then, after
hovering over the town for a moment, he gave his tail an angry shake
and took up his flight to the dreadful wilds. When he reached this
desolate region, he set the stone Griffin upon a ledge of a rock which
rose in front of the dismal cave he called his home. There the image
occupied a position somewhat similar to that it had had over the
church-door; and the Griffin, panting with the exertion of carrying
such an enormous load to so great a distance, lay down upon the ground,
and regarded it with much satisfaction. When he felt somewhat rested he
went to look for the Minor Canon. He found the young man, weak and
half-starved, lying under the shadow of a rock. After picking him up
and carrying him to his cave, the Griffin flew away to a distant marsh,
where he procured some roots and herbs which he well knew were
strengthening and beneficial to man, though he had never tasted them
himself. After eating these the Minor Canon was greatly revived, and
sat up and listened while the Griffin told him what had happened in the
town.

"Do you know," said the monster, when he had finished, "that I have
had, and still have, a great liking for you?"

"I am very glad to hear it," said the Minor Canon, with his usual
politeness.

"I am not at all sure that you would be," said the Griffin, "if you
thoroughly understood the state of the case, but we will not consider
that now. If some things were different, other things would be
otherwise. I have been so enraged by discovering the manner in which
you have been treated that I have determined that you shall at last
enjoy the rewards and honors to which you are entitled. Lie down and
have a good sleep, and then I will take you back to the town."

As he heard these words, a look of trouble came over the young man's
face.

"You need not give yourself any anxiety," said the Griffin, "about my
return to the town. I shall not remain there. Now that I have that
admirable likeness of myself in front of my cave, where I can sit at my
leisure, and gaze upon its noble features and magnificent proportions,
I have no wish to see that abode of cowardly and selfish people."

The Minor Canon, relieved from his fears, lay back, and dropped into a
doze; and when he was sound asleep the Griffin took him up, and carried
him back to the town. He arrived just before daybreak, and putting the
young man gently on the grass in the little field where he himself used
to rest, the monster, without having been seen by any of the people,
flew back to his home.

When the Minor Canon made his appearance in the morning among the
citizens, the enthusiasm and cordiality with which he was received were
truly wonderful. He was taken to a house which had been occupied by one
of the vanished high officers of the place, and every one was anxious
to do all that could be done for his health and comfort. The people
crowded into the church when he held services, so that the three old
women who used to be his week-day congregation could not get to the
best seats, which they had always been in the habit of taking; and the
parents of the bad children determined to reform them at home, in order
that he might be spared the trouble of keeping up his former school.
The Minor Canon was appointed to the highest office of the old church,
and before he died, he became a bishop.

During the first years after his return from the dreadful wilds, the
people of the town looked up to him as a man to whom they were bound to
do honor and reverence; but they often, also, looked up to the sky to
see if there were any signs of the Griffin coming back. However, in the
course of time, they learned to honor and reverence their former Minor
Canon without the fear of being punished if they did not do so.

But they need never have been afraid of the Griffin. The autumnal
equinox day came round, and the monster ate nothing. If he could not
have the Minor Canon, he did not care for any thing. So, lying down,
with his eyes fixed upon the great stone griffin, he gradually
declined, and died. It was a good thing for some people of the town
that they did not know this.

If you should ever visit the old town, you would still see the little
griffins on the sides of the church; but the great stone griffin that
was over the door is gone.

NOTE: [1] Written in 1887. This story is used by permission of and
special arrangement with _Charles Scribner's Sons_, publishers.

BIOGRAPHY

Frank Richard Stockton, one of America's foremost story-tellers and
humorists, was born in Philadelphia in 1834. His father was a
Presbyterian minister who devoutly wished that his son might study
medicine. This wish was shattered early, for the son showed symptoms of
being a writer while yet in the Central High School of Philadelphia. In
competition with many of his schoolmates for a prize offered for the
best story, young Stockton won easily.

After finishing his high school course, he adopted the profession of
wood-engraver. Although he earned his living for several years by
carving wood, he never lost his desire to write, and practised, at
every spare moment, his favorite avocation. It was this careful and
patient training during his apprenticeship that finally made him the
expert story-teller that he is. It is very interesting to any one who
cares for the acquirement of an excellent style to note how all the
authors contained in this text have had to work with almost a
superhuman force to reach the heights of successful short-story
writing.

His first important publication, _Kate_, appeared in the _Southern
Literary Messenger_ in 1859. He then joined the staff of the
_Philadelphia Morning Post_, where he did regular newspaper work and
contributed to the _Riverside Magazine_ and _Hearth and Home_. In 1872
his _Stephen Skarridge's Christmas_ appeared in _Scribner's Monthly_.
Dr. J.G. Holland, editor of _Scribner's_, was so impressed with the
story that he made Mr. Stockton an assistant editor and persuaded him
to move to New York. In 1873 he joined the staff of the _St. Nicholas
Magazine_. His publication of the _Rudder Grange_ series in
_Scribner's_ _Monthly_ in 1878 made him famous. In 1882 he resigned all
editorial work and spent his entire time in literary composition.

Mr. Stockton possessed a frail body and very little physical endurance.
In spite of this physical handicap he was very vivacious and gay. He
was a genial and companionable man, loved by all who knew him. He was
very modest, even to the point of shyness, exceptionally sincere, and
quaintly humorous. He established homes in New Jersey and West
Virginia, where he spent the greater part of his time from 1882 until
his death in 1902.

BIOGRAPHICAL REFERENCES

_Famous Authors_ (107-122), B.F. Harkness.

_American Authors_ (59-73), F.W. Halsey.

"Character Sketch," _Book-Buyer_, 24:355-357.

"Home at Claymont," _Current Literature_, 30:221.

"Sketch," _Outlook_, 70: 1000-1001,

"Stockton and his Work," _Atlantic Monthly_, 87:136-138.

CRITICISMS

The writings of Frank R. Stockton are excellent representatives of the
man himself. How closely allied writer and writings are is very well
stated by Hamilton W. Mabie in the _Book-Buyer_ for June, 1902, "His
talk had much of the quality of his writing; it was full of quaint
conceits, whimsicalities, impossible suggestions offered with perfect
gravity. He was always perfectly natural; he never attempted to live up
to his part; in talk, at least, he never forced the note. His attitude
toward himself was slightly tinged with humor, and he knew how to foil
easily and pleasantly too great a pressure of praise."

His tales are extravagantly impossible but extremely realistic in
effect, filled with humorous situations and singular plots, and peopled
with eccentric characters that afford amusement on every page. His most
successful writing is done when he explains contrivances upon which his
story depends. He is an original and inventive expert juggler who moves
with careless ease to the most effective ends. His characters are
little more than pieces of mechanism that act when he pulls the string.
They have little emotion and even in their love-making they show their
emotion mostly for the sake of the reader's amusement. His negro
characters are exceptions to his general treatment and are true to
life. He inveigles the reader into believing the most extravagant
incidents by having a reliable witness narrate them.

Stockton never stoops to the burlesque, cynic, or vulgar phases of life
to secure amusement. He is grotesque and droll in his manner, and above
all always restrained. His literary life is full of sprites and gnomes
that frolic before young children and once before mature people. _The
Griffin and the Minor Canon_ is a beautiful fairy story lifted from
childhood's thought and diction into a mature realm. His humor is plain
and simple, cool and keenly calculating. A friendly critic has said of
one of his stories, "With a gentle, ceaseless murmur of amusement, and
a flickering twinkle of smiles, the story moves steadily on in the calm
triumph of its assured and unassailable absurdity, to its logical and
indisputable impossibility." This observation is very largely true of
all his stories.

GENERAL REFERENCES

_Frank R. Stockton_, A.T.Q. Couch.

"Stockton's Method of Working," _Current Literature_, 32:495.

"Criticism," _Atheneum_, 1:532.

"Estimate," _Harper's Weekly_, 46:555.

COLLATERAL READINGS

_The Beeman of Orn, and Other Fanciful Tales_, Frank R. Stockton.

_The Lady or the Tiger_, Frank R. Stockton.

_Rudder Grange_, Frank R. Stockton.

_A Tale of Negative Gravity_, Frank R. Stockton.

_The Remarkable Wreck of the Thomas Hyde_, Frank R. Stockton.

_His Wife's Deceased Sister_, Frank R. Stockton.

_Legend of Sleepy Hollow_, Washington Irving.

_Monsieur du Miroir_, Nathaniel Hawthorne.

_At the End of the Passage_, Rudyard Kipling.

_The Vacant Lot_, Mary Wilkins Freeman.

_The Princess Pourquoi_, Margaret Sherwood.

_What Was It? A Mystery_, Fitz-James O'Brien.

_Wandering Willie's Tale_, Walter Scott.




THE PIECE OF STRING[1]


_By Guy de Maupassant (1850-1893)_


On all the roads about Goderville the peasants and their wives were
coming toward the town, for it was market day. The men walked at an
easy gait, the whole body thrown forward with every movement of their
long, crooked legs, misshapen by hard work, by the bearing down on the
plough which at the same time causes the left shoulder to rise and the
figure to slant; by the mowing of the grain, which makes one hold his
knees apart in order to obtain a firm footing; by all the slow and
laborious tasks of the fields. Their starched blue blouses, glossy as
if varnished, adorned at the neck and wrists with a bit of white
stitchwork, puffed out about their bony chests like balloons on the
point of taking flight, from which protrude a head, two arms, and two
feet.

Some of them led a cow or a calf at the end of a rope. And their wives,
walking behind the beast, lashed it with a branch still covered with
leaves, to hasten its pace. They carried on their arms great baskets,
from which heads of chickens or of ducks were thrust forth. And they
walked with a shorter and quicker step than their men, their stiff,
lean figures wrapped in scanty shawls pinned over their flat breasts,
their heads enveloped in a white linen cloth close to the hair, with a
cap over all.

Then a _char-à-bancs[2]_ passed, drawn by a jerky-paced nag, with two
men seated side by side shaking like jelly, and a woman behind, who
clung to the side of the vehicle to lessen the rough jolting.

On the square at Goderville there was a crowd, a medley of men and
beasts. The horns of the cattle, the high hats, with a long, hairy nap,
of the wealthy peasants, and the head dresses of the peasant women,
appeared on the surface of the throng. And the sharp, shrill,
high-pitched voices formed an incessant, uncivilized uproar, over which
soared at times a roar of laughter from the powerful chest of a sturdy
yokel, or the prolonged bellow of a cow fastened to the wall of a
house.

There was an all-pervading smell of the stable, of milk, of the
dunghill, of hay, and of perspiration—that acrid, disgusting odor of
man and beast peculiar to country people.

Master Hauchecorne, of Bréauté, had just arrived at Goderville, and was
walking toward the square, when he saw a bit of string on the ground.
Master Hauchecorne, economical like every true Norman, thought that it
was well to pick up everything that might be of use; and he stooped
painfully, for he suffered with rheumatism. He took the piece of
slender cord from the ground, and was about to roll it up carefully,
when he saw Master Malandain, the harness-maker, standing in his
doorway and looking at him. They had formerly had trouble on the
subject of a halter, and had remained at odds, being both inclined to
bear malice. Master Hauchecorne felt a sort of shame at being seen thus
by his enemy, fumbling in the mud for a bit of string. He hurriedly
concealed his treasure in his blouse, then in his breeches pocket; then
he pretended to look on the ground for something else, which he did not
find; and finally he went on toward the market, his head thrust
forward, bent double by his pains.

He lost himself at once in the slow-moving, shouting crowd, kept in a
state of excitement by the interminable bargaining. The peasants felt
of the cows, went away, returned, sorely perplexed, always afraid of
being cheated, never daring to make up their minds, watching the
vendor's eye, striving incessantly to detect the tricks of the man and
the defect in the beast.

The women, having placed their great baskets at their feet, took out
their fowls, which lay on the ground, their legs tied together, with
frightened eyes and scarlet combs.

They listened to offers, adhered to their prices, short of speech and
impassive of face; or else, suddenly deciding to accept the lower price
offered, they would call out to the customer as he walked slowly away:—

"All right, Mast' Anthime. You can have it."

Then, little by little, the square became empty, and when the
Angelus[3] struck midday those who lived too far away to go home betook
themselves to the various inns.

At Jourdain's the common room was full of customers, as the great yard
was full of vehicles of every sort—carts, cabriolets,[4]
_char-à-bancs_, tilburys,[5] unnamable carriages, shapeless, patched,
with, their shafts reaching heavenward like arms, or with their noses
in the ground and their tails in the air.

The vast fireplace, full of clear flame, cast an intense heat against
the backs of the row on the right of the table. Three spits were
revolving, laden with chickens, pigeons, and legs of mutton; and a
delectable odor of roast meat, and of gravy dripping from the browned
skin, came forth from the hearth, stirred the guests to merriment, and
made their mouths water.

All the aristocracy of the plough ate there, at Mast' Jourdain's, the
innkeeper and horse trader—a shrewd rascal who had money.

The dishes passed and were soon emptied, like the jugs of yellow cider.
Every one told of his affairs, his sales and his purchases. They
inquired about the crops. The weather was good for green stuffs, but a
little wet for wheat.

Suddenly a drum rolled in the yard, in front of the house. In an
instant everybody was on his feet, save a few indifferent ones; and
they all ran to the door and windows with their mouths still full and
napkins in hand.

Having finished his long tattoo, the public crier shouted in a jerky
voice, making his pauses in the wrong places:—

"The people of Goderville, and all those present at the market are
informed that between—nine and ten o'clock this morning on the
Beuzeville—road, a black leather wallet was lost, containing five
hundred—francs, and business papers. The finder is requested to carry
it to—the mayor's at once, or to Master Fortuné Huelbrèque of
Manneville. A reward of twenty francs will be paid."

Then he went away. They heard once more in the distance the muffled
roll of the drum and the indistinct voice of the crier.

Then they began to talk about the incident, reckoning Master
Houlbrèque's chance of finding or not finding his wallet.

And the meal went on.

They were finishing their coffee when the corporal of gendarmes
appeared in the doorway.

He inquired:—

"Is Master Hauchecorne of Bréauté here?"

Master Hauchecorne, who was seated at the farther end of the table,
answered:—

"Here I am."

And the corporal added:—

"Master Hauchecorne, will you be kind enough to go to the mayor's
office with me? Monsieur the mayor would like to speak to you."

The peasant, surprised and disturbed, drank his _petit verre[6]_ at one
swallow, rose, and even more bent than in the morning, for the first
steps after each rest were particularly painful, he started off,
repeating:—

"Here I am, here I am."

And he followed the brigadier.

The mayor was waiting for him, seated in his arm-chair. He was the
local notary, a stout, solemn-faced man, given to pompous speeches.

"Master Hauchecorne," he said, "you were seen this morning, on the
Beuzeville road, to pick up the wallet lost by Master Huelbrèque of
Manneville."

The rustic, dumfounded, stared at the mayor, already alarmed by this
suspicion which had fallen upon him, although he failed to understand
it.

"I, I—I picked up that wallet?"

"Yes, you."

"On my word of honor, I didn't even so much as see it."

"You were seen."

"They saw me, me? Who was it saw me?"

"Monsieur Malandain, the harness-maker."

Thereupon the old man remembered and understood; and flushing with
anger, he cried:—

"Ah! he saw me, did he, that sneak? He saw me pick up this string,
look, m'sieu' mayor."

And fumbling in the depths of his pocket, he produced the little piece
of cord.

But the mayor was incredulous and shook his head.

"You won't make me believe, Master Hauchecorne, that Monsieur
Malandain, who is a man deserving of credit, mistook this string for a
wallet."

The peasant, in a rage, raised his hand, spit to one side to pledge his
honor, and said:—

"It's God's own truth, the sacred truth, all the same, m'sieu' mayor. I
say it again, by my soul and my salvation."

"After picking it up," rejoined the mayor, "you hunted a long while in
the mud, to see if some piece of money hadn't fallen out."

The good man was suffocated with wrath and fear.

"If any one can tell—if any one can tell lies like that to ruin an
honest man! If any one can say—"

To no purpose did he protest; he was not believed.

He was confronted with Monsieur Malandain, who repeated and maintained
his declaration. They insulted each other for a whole hour. At his own
request, Master Hauchecorne was searched. They found nothing on him. At
last the mayor, being sorely perplexed, discharged him, but warned him
that he proposed to inform the prosecuting attorney's office and to ask
for orders.

The news had spread. On leaving the mayor's office, the old man was
surrounded and questioned with serious or bantering curiosity, in
which, however, there was no trace of indignation. And he began to tell
the story of the string. They did not believe him. They laughed.

He went his way, stopping his acquaintances, repeating again and again
his story and his protestations, showing his pockets turned inside out,
to prove that he had nothing.

They said to him:—

"You old rogue, _va!_"

And he lost his temper, lashing himself into a rage, feverish with
excitement, desperate because he was not believed, at a loss what to
do, and still telling his story. Night came. He must needs go home. He
started with three neighbors, to whom he pointed out the place where he
had picked up the bit of string: and all the way he talked of his
misadventure.

During the evening he made a circuit of the village of Bréauté, in
order to tell everybody about it. He found none but incredulous
listeners.

He was ill over it all night.

The next afternoon, about one o'clock, Marius Paumelle, a farmhand
employed by Master Breton, a farmer of Ymauville, restored the wallet
and its contents to Master Huelbrèque of Manneville.

The man claimed that he had found it on the road; but, being unable to
read, had carried it home and given it to his employer.

The news soon became known in the neighborhood; Master Hauchecorne was
informed of it. He started out again at once, and began to tell his
story, now made complete by the dénouement. He was triumphant.

"What made me feel bad," he said, "wasn't so much the thing itself, you
understand, but the lying. There's nothing hurts you so much as being
blamed for lying."

All day long he talked of his adventure; he told it on the roads to
people who passed; at the wine-shop to people who were drinking; and
after church on the following Sunday. He even stopped strangers to tell
them about it. His mind was at rest now, and yet something embarrassed
him, although he could not say just what it was. People seemed to laugh
while they listened to him. They did not seem convinced. He felt as if
remarks were made behind his back.

On Tuesday of the next week, he went to market at Goderville, impelled
solely by the longing to tell his story.

Malandain, standing in his doorway, began to laugh when he saw him
coming. Why?

He accosted a farmer from Criquetot, who did not let him finish, but
poked him in the pit of his stomach, and shouted in his face: "Go on,
you old fox!" Then he turned on his heel.

Master Hauchecorne was speechless, and more and more disturbed. Why did
he call him "old fox"?

When he was seated at the table, in Jourdain's Inn, he set about
explaining the affair once more.

A horse-trader from Montvilliers called out to him:—

"Nonsense, nonsense, you old dodger! I know all about your string!"

"But they've found the wallet!" faltered Hauchecorne.

"None of that, old boy; there's one who finds it, and there's one who
carries it back. I don't know just how you did it, but I understand
you."

The peasant was fairly stunned. He understood at last. He was accused
of having sent the wallet back by a confederate, an accomplice.

He tried to protest. The whole table began to laugh.

He could not finish his dinner, but left the inn amid a chorus of
jeers.

He returned home, shamefaced and indignant, suffocated by wrath, by
confusion, and all the more cast down because, with his Norman cunning,
he was quite capable of doing the thing with which he was charged, and
even of boasting of it as a shrewd trick. He had a confused idea that
his innocence was impossible to establish, his craftiness being so well
known. And he was cut to the heart by the injustice of the suspicion.

Thereupon he began once more to tell of the adventure, making the story
longer each day, adding each time new arguments, more forcible
protestations, more solemn oaths, which he devised and prepared in his
hours of solitude, his mind being wholly engrossed by the story of the
string. The more complicated his defence and the more subtle his
reasoning, the less he was believed.

"Those are a liar's reasons," people said behind his back.

He realized it: he gnawed his nails, and exhausted himself in vain
efforts.

He grew perceptibly thinner.

Now the jokers asked him to tell the story of "The Piece of String" for
their amusement, as a soldier who has seen service is asked to tell
about his battles. His mind, attacked at its source, grew feebler.

Late in December he took to his bed.

In the first days of January he died, and in his delirium, of the death
agony, he protested his innocence, repeating:

"A little piece of string—a little piece of string—see, here it is,
m'sieu' mayor."

NOTES

[1] _The Piece of String_ was written in 1884. Reprinted from _Little
French Masterpieces_, by permission of the publishers, _G.P. Putnam's
Sons_.

[2] 34:5 char-à-bancs. A pleasure car.

[3] 35:26 Angelus. A bell tolled at morning, noon, and night, according
to the Roman Catholic Church custom, to indicate the time of the
service of song and recitation in memory of the Virgin Mary. The name
is taken from the first word of the recitation.

[4] 35:30 cabriolet. A cab. Originally a light, one-horse pleasure
carriage with two seats.

[5] 35:30 tilbury. An old form of gig, seating two persons.

[6] 37:20 petit verre. Little glass.

BIOGRAPHY

Henri René Albert Guy de Maupassant, French novelist, dramatist, and
short-story writer, was born in 1850. Until he was thirteen years old
he had no teacher except his mother, who personally superintended the
training of her two sons. Life for the two boys, during these early
years, was free and happy, Guy was a strong and robust Norman,
overflowing with animal spirits and exuberant with the joy of youthful
life.

When thirteen years of age Maupassant attended the seminary at Yvetot,
where he found school life irksome and a most distasteful contrast to
his former free life. Later he became a student in the Lycée in Rouen.
His experience as a student here was very pleasant, and he easily
acquired his degree. In 1870 he was appointed to a clerkship in the
Navy, and a little later to a more lucrative position in the Department
of Public Instruction. His work in these two positions suffered very
materially because of his negligence and daily practice in writing
verses and essays for Flaubert, the most careful literary technicist in
the history of literature, to criticize. For seven years Maupassant
served this severe task-master, always writing, receiving criticisms,
and publishing nothing.

Immediately after the publication of his first story Maupassant was
hailed as a finished master artist. From 1880 to 1890 he published six
novels, sixteen volumes of short-stories, three volumes of travels, and
many newspaper articles. This gigantic task was performed only because
of his regular habits and splendid physique. He wrote regularly every
morning from seven o'clock until noon, and at night always wrote out
notes on the impressions from his experiences of the day.

Maupassant was a natural artist deeply in love with the technique of
his work. He did not write for money, although he believed that a
writer should have plenty of this world's possessions, nor did he write
for art's sake. In fact he avoided talking on the subject of writing
and to all appearances seemed to despise his profession. He wrote
because the restless, immitigable force within him compelled him to
work like a slave. He thought little of morals, or religion, but was
enamored with physical life and its insolvable problems. He was, above
everything else, a truthful man. Sometimes his subjects are unclean and
he treats them as such, but, if his subject is clean, his treatment is
undefiled.

In 1887 the shadows of insanity began to creep athwart his life. Even
in 1884 he seemed to feel a premonition of his coming catastrophe when
he wrote: "I am afraid of the walls, of the furniture, of the familiar
objects which seem to me to assume a kind of animal life. Above all, I
fear the horrible confusion of my thought, of my reason escaping,
entangled and scattered by an invisible and mysterious anguish." The
dreaded disease developed until, in 1890, he had to suspend his
writing. In 1892 he became wholly insane and had to be committed to an
insane asylum where he died in a padded cell one year later.

BIOGRAPHICAL REFERENCES

_The New International Encyclopaedia_.

_Encyclopaedia Britannica_.

_Bookman_, 25:290-294_.

CRITICISMS

Maupassant's short-stories are generally conceded to be the best in
French literature. He handles his materials with great care, and his
descriptions of scenes and characters are unequalled. In his first
writings he seems impassive to the point of frigidity. He is a recorder
who sets down exactly the life before him. This is one of the lessons
he learned from Flaubert. He was not interested in what a character
thought or felt, but he noted and fondled every action of his
characters.

He loved life, despite the lack of solutions. At times his fondness for
mere physical life leads him to the brutal stage. In his story, _On the
Water_, he gives a confession of a purely sensual man: "How gladly, at
times, I would think no more, feel no more, live the life of a brute,
in a warm, bright country, in a yellow country, without crude and
brutal verdure, in one of those Eastern countries in which one falls
asleep without concern, is active and has no cares, loves and has no
distress, and is scarcely aware that one is going on living!"

Maupassant was a keen observer, possessed an excellent but not lofty
imagination, and never asserted a philosophy of life. His writings are
all interesting, terse, precise, and truthful, but lack the glow that
comes with a sympathetic and spiritual outlook on life. Zola says of
him: "…. a Latin of good, clear, solid head, a maker of beautiful
sentences shining like gold…." He chooses a single incident, a few
characteristics and then moulds them into a compact story. Nine-tenths
of his stories deal with selfishness and hypocrisy.

Tolstoi wrote: "Maupassant possessed genius, that gift of attention
revealing in the objects and facts of life properties not perceived by
others; he possessed a beautiful form of expression, uttering clearly,
simply, and with charm what he wished to say; and he possessed also the
merit of sincerity, without which a work of art produces no effect;
that is he did not merely pretend to love or hate, but did indeed love
or hate what he described."

GENERAL REFERENCES

_Inquiries and Opinions_, Brander Matthews.

"A Criticism," _Outlook_, 88:973-976.

"Greatest Short Story Writer that Ever Lived," _Current Literature_,
42:636-638.

COLLATERAL READINGS

_Happiness_ (Odd Number), Guy de Maupassant.

_The Wolf_, Guy de Maupassant.

_La Mère Sauvage_, Guy de Maupassant.

_The Confession_, Guy de Maupassant.

_On the Journey_, Guy de Maupassant.

_The Beggar_, Guy de Maupassant.

_A Ghost_, Guy de Maupassant.

_Little Soldier_, Guy de Maupassant.

_The Wreck_, Guy de Maupassant.

_The Necklace_, Guy de Maupassant.

_A Note of Scarlet_, Ruth Stuart.

_Expiation_, Octave Thanet.

_Fagan_, Rowland Thomas.

_La Grande Bretêche_ ("Jessup and Canby"), Honoré de Balzac.




THE MAN WHO WAS[1]


_By Rudyard Kipling (1865-   )_


Let it be clearly understood that the Russian is a delightful person
till he tucks his shirt in. As an Oriental he is charming. It is only
when he insists upon being treated as the most easterly of Western
peoples, instead of the most westerly of Easterns, that he becomes a
racial anomaly[2] extremely difficult to handle. The host never knows
which side of his nature is going to turn up next.

Dirkovitch was a Russian—a Russian of the Russians, as he said—who
appeared to get his bread by serving the czar as an officer in a
Cossack regiment, and corresponding for a Russian newspaper with a name
that was never twice the same. He was a handsome young Oriental, with a
taste for wandering through unexplored portions of the earth, and he
arrived in India from nowhere in particular. At least no living man
could ascertain whether it was by way of Balkh, Budukhshan, Chitral,
Beloochistan, Nepaul, or anywhere else. The Indian government, being in
an unusually affable mood, gave orders that he was to be civilly
treated, and shown everything that was to be seen; so he drifted,
talking bad English and worse French, from one city to another till he
forgathered with her Majesty's White Hussars[3] in the city of
Peshawur,[4] which stands at the mouth of that narrow sword-cut in the
hills that men call the Khyber Pass. He was undoubtedly an officer, and
he was decorated, after the manner of the Russians, with little
enameled crosses, and he could talk, and (though this has nothing to do
with his merits) he had been given up as a hopeless task or case by the
Black Tyrones[5], who, individually and collectively, with hot whisky
and honey, mulled brandy and mixed spirits of all kinds, had striven in
all hospitality to make him drunk. And when the Black Tyrones, who are
exclusively Irish, fail to disturb the peace of head of a foreigner,
that foreigner is certain to be a superior man. This was the argument
of the Black Tyrones, but they were ever an unruly and self-opinionated
regiment, and they allowed junior subalterns of four years' service to
choose their wines. The spirits were always purchased by the colonel
and a committee of majors. And a regiment that would so behave may be
respected but cannot be loved.

The White Hussars were as conscientious in choosing their wine as in
charging the enemy. There was a brandy that had been purchased by a
cultured colonel a few years after the battle of Waterloo. It has been
maturing ever since, and it was a marvelous brandy at the purchasing.
The memory of that liquor would cause men to weep as they lay dying in
the teak forests of upper Burmah[6] or the slime of the Irrawaddy[7].
And there was a port which was notable; and there was a champagne of an
obscure brand, which always came to mess without any labels, because
the White Hussars wished none to know where the source of supply might
be found. The officer on whose head the champagne choosing lay was
forbidden the use of tobacco for six weeks previous to sampling.

This particularity of detail is necessary to emphasize the fact that
that champagne, that port, and above all, that brandy—the green and
yellow and white liqueurs did not count—was placed at the absolute
disposition of Dirkovitch, and he enjoyed himself hugely—even more than
among the Black Tyrones.

But he remained distressingly European through it all. The White
Hussars were—"My dear true friends," "Fellow-soldiers glorious," and
"Brothers inseparable." He would unburden himself by the hour on the
glorious future that awaited the combined arms of England and Russia
when their hearts and their territories should run side by side, and
the great mission of civilizing Asia should begin. That was
unsatisfactory, because Asia is not going to be civilized after the
methods of the West. There is too much Asia, and she is too old. You
cannot reform a lady of many lovers, and Asia has been insatiable in
her flirtations aforetime. She will never attend Sunday school, or
learn to vote save with swords for tickets.

Dirkovitch knew this as well as any one else, but it suited him to talk
special-correspondently and to make himself as genial as he could. Now
and then he volunteered a little, a very little, information about his
own Sotnia[8] of Cossacks, left apparently to look after themselves
somewhere at the back of beyond. He had done rough work in Central
Asia, and had seen rather more help-yourself fighting than most men of
his years. But he was careful never to betray his superiority, and more
than careful to praise on all occasions the appearance, drill, uniform,
and organization of her Majesty's White Hussars. And, indeed, they were
a regiment to be admired. When Mrs. Durgan, widow of the late Sir John
Durgan, arrived in their station, and after a short time had been
proposed to by every single man at mess, she put the public sentiment
very neatly when she explained that they were all so nice that unless
she could marry them all, including the colonel and some majors who
were already married, she was not going to content herself with one of
them. Wherefore she wedded a little man in a rifle regiment—being by
nature contradictious—and the White Hussars were going to wear crape on
their arms, but compromised by attending the wedding in full force, and
lining the aisle with unutterable reproach. She had jilted them
all—from Basset-Holmer, the senior captain, to Little Mildred, the last
subaltern, and he could have given her four thousand a year and a
title. He was a viscount, and on his arrival the mess had said he had
better go into the Guards, because they were all sons of large grocers
and small clothiers in the Hussars, but Mildred begged very hard to be
allowed to stay, and behaved so prettily that he was forgiven, and
became a man, which is much more important than being any sort of
viscount.

The only persons who did not share the general regard for the White
Hussars were a few thousand gentlemen of Jewish extraction who lived
across the border, and answered to the name of Pathan. They had only
met the regiment officially, and for something less than twenty
minutes, but the interview, which was complicated with many casualties,
had filled them with prejudice. They even called the White Hussars
"children of the devil," and sons of persons whom it would be perfectly
impossible to meet in decent society. Yet they were not above making
their aversion fill their money belts. The regiment possessed carbines,
beautiful Martini-Henri carbines, that would cob a bullet into an
enemy's camp at one thousand yards, and were even handier than the long
rifle. Therefore they were coveted all along the border, and since
demand inevitably breeds supply, they were supplied at the risk of life
and limb for exactly their weight in coined silver—seven and one half
pounds of rupees[9], or sixteen pounds and a few shillings each,
reckoning the rupee at par. They were stolen at night by snaky-haired
thieves that crawled on their stomachs under the nose of the sentries;
they disappeared mysteriously from armracks; and in the hot weather,
when all the doors and windows were open, they vanished like puffs of
their own smoke. The border people desired them first for their own
family vendettas[10] and then for contingencies. But in the long cold
nights of the Northern Indian winter they were stolen most extensively.
The traffic of murder was liveliest among the hills at that season, and
prices ruled high. The regimental guards were first doubled and then
trebled. A trooper does not much care if he loses a weapon—government
must make it good—but he deeply resents the loss of his sleep. The
regiment grew very angry, and one night-thief who managed to limp away
bears the visible marks of their anger upon him to this hour. That
incident stopped the burglaries for a time, and the guards were reduced
accordingly, and the regiment devoted itself to polo with unexpected
results, for it beat by two goals to one that very terrible polo corps
the Lushkar Light Horse, though the latter had four ponies apiece for a
short hour's fight, as well as a native officer who played like a
lambent flame across the ground.

Then they gave a dinner to celebrate the event. The Lushkar team came,
and Dirkovitch came, in the fullest full uniform of Cossack officer,
which is as full as a dressing-gown, and was introduced to the
Lushkars, and opened his eyes as he regarded them. They were lighter
men than the Hussars, and they carried themselves with the swing that
is the peculiar right of the Punjab[11] frontier force and all
irregular horse. Like everything else in the service, it has to be
learned; but unlike many things, it is never forgotten, and remains on
the body till death.

The great beam-roofed mess room of the White Hussars was a sight to be
remembered. All the mess plate was on the long table—the same table
that had served up the bodies of five dead officers in a forgotten
fight long and long ago—the dingy, battered standards faced the door of
entrance, clumps of winter roses lay between the silver candlesticks,
the portraits of eminent officers deceased looked down on their
successors from between the heads of sambhur[12], nilghai[13], maikhor,
and, pride of all the mess, two grinning snow-leopards that had cost
Basset-Holmer four months' leave that he might have spent in England
instead of on the road to Thibet, and the daily risk of his life on
ledge, snowslide, and glassy grass slope.

The servants, in spotless white muslin and the crest of their regiments
on the brow of their turbans, waited behind their masters, who were
clad in the scarlet and gold of the White Hussars and the cream and
silver of the Lushkar Light Horse. Dirkovitch's dull green uniform was
the only dark spot at the board, but his big onyx eyes made up for it.
He was fraternizing effusively with the captain of the Lushkar team,
who was wondering how many of Dirkovitch's Cossacks his own long, lathy
down-countrymen could account for in a fair charge. But one does not
speak of these things openly.

The talk rose higher and higher, and the regimental band played between
the courses, as is the immemorial custom, till all tongues ceased for a
moment with the removal of the dinner slips and the First Toast of
Obligation, when the colonel, rising, said, "Mr. Vice, the Queen," and
Little Mildred from the bottom of the table answered, "The Queen, God
bless her!" and the big spurs clanked as the big men heaved themselves
up and drank the Queen, upon whose pay they were falsely supposed to
pay their mess bills. That sacrament of the mess never grows old, and
never ceases to bring a lump into the throat of the listener wherever
he be, by land or by sea. Dirkovitch rose with his "brothers glorious,"
but he could not understand. No one but an officer can understand what
the toast means; and the bulk have more sentiment than comprehension.
It all comes to the same in the end, as the enemy said when he was
wriggling on a lance point. Immediately after the little silence that
follows on the ceremony there entered the native officer who had played
for the Lushkar team. He could not of course eat with the alien, but he
came in at dessert, all six feet of him, with the blue-and-silver
turban atop, and the big black top-boots below. The mess rose joyously
as he thrust forward the hilt of his saber, in token of fealty, for the
colonel of the White Hussars to touch, and dropped into a vacant chair
amid shouts of "_Rung ho_! Hira Singh!" (which being translated means
"Go in and win!"). "Did I whack you over the knee, old man?" "Ressaidar
Sahib, what the devil made you play that kicking pig of a pony in the
last ten minutes?" "Shabash, Ressaidar Sahib!" Then the voice of the
colonel, "The health of Ressaidar Hira Singh!"

After the shouting had died away, Hira Singh rose to reply, for he was
the cadet of a royal house, the son of a king's son, and knew what was
due on these occasions. Thus he spoke in the vernacular:—

"Colonel Sahib and officers of this regiment, much honor have you done
me. This will I remember. We came down from afar to play you; but we
were beaten." ("No fault of yours, Ressaidar Sahib. Played on our own
ground, y' know. Your ponies were cramped from the railway. Don't
apologize.") "Therefore perhaps we will come again if it be so
ordained." ("Hear! Hear, hear, indeed! Bravo! Hsh!") "Then we will play
you afresh" ("Happy to meet you"), "till there are left no feet upon
our ponies. Thus far for sport." He dropped one hand on his sword hilt
and his eye wandered to Dirkovitch lolling back in his chair. "But if
by the will of God there arises any other game which is not the polo
game, then be assured, Colonel Sahib and officers, that we shall play
it out side by side, though _they_"—again his eye sought
Dirkovitch—"though _they_, I say, have fifty ponies to our one horse."
And with a deep-mouthed _Rung ho_! that rang like a musket butt on
flagstones, he sat down amid shoutings.

Dirkovitch, who had devoted himself steadily to the brandy—the terrible
brandy aforementioned—did not understand, nor did the expurgated[14]
translations offered to him at all convey the point. Decidedly the
native officer's was the speech of the evening, and the clamor might
have continued to the dawn had it not been broken by the noise of a
shot without that sent every man feeling at his defenseless left side.
It is notable that Dirkovitch "reached back," after the American
fashion—a gesture that set the captain of the Lushkar team wondering
how Cossack officers were armed at mess. Then there was a scuffle, and
a yell of pain.

"Carbine stealing again!" said the adjutant, calmly sinking back in his
chair. "This comes of reducing the guards. I hope the sentries have
killed him."

The feet of armed men pounded on the veranda flags, and it sounded as
though something was being dragged.

"Why don't they put him in the cells till the morning?" said the
colonel, testily. "See if they've damaged him, sergeant."

The mess-sergeant fled out into the darkness, and returned with two
troopers and a corporal, all very much perplexed.

"Caught a man stealin' carbines, sir," said the corporal.

"Leastways 'e was crawling toward the barricks, sir, past the main-road
sentries; an' the sentry 'e says, sir—"

The limp heap of rags upheld by the three men groaned. Never was seen
so destitute and demoralized an Afghan. He was turbanless, shoeless,
caked with dirt, and all but dead with rough handling. Hira Singh
started slightly at the sound of the man's pain. Dirkovitch took
another liqueur glass of brandy.

"_What_ does the sentry say?" said the colonel.

"Sez he speaks English, sir," said the corporal.

"So you brought him into mess instead of handing him over to the
sergeant! If he spoke all the tongues of the Pentecost you've no
business—"

Again the bundle groaned and muttered. Little Mildred had risen from
his place to inspect. He jumped back as though he had been shot.

"Perhaps it would be better, sir, to send the men away," said he to the
colonel, for he was a much-privileged subaltern. He put his arms round
the rag-bound horror as he spoke, and dropped him into a chair. It may
not have been explained that the littleness of Mildred lay in his being
six feet four, and big in proportion. The corporal, seeing that an
officer was disposed to look after the capture, and that the colonel's
eye was beginning to blaze, promptly removed himself and his men. The
mess was left alone with the carbine thief, who laid his head on the
table and wept bitterly, hopelessly, and inconsolably, as little
children weep.

Hira Singh leaped to his feet with a long-drawn vernacular oath
"Colonel Sahib," said he, "that man is no Afghan, for they weep '_Ai!
Ai_!' Nor is he of Hindustan, for they weep,'_Oh! Ho_!' He weeps after
the fashion of the white men, who say '_Ow! Ow_!'"

"Now where the dickens did you get that knowledge, Hira Singh?" said
the captain of the Lushkar team.

"Hear him!" said Hira Singh, simply, pointing at the crumpled figure
that wept as though it would never cease.

"He said, 'My God!'" said Little Mildred, "I heard him say it."

The colonel and the mess room looked at the man in silence. It is a
horrible thing to hear a man cry. A woman can sob from the top of her
palate, or her lips, or anywhere else, but a man cries from his
diaphragm, and it rends him to pieces. Also, the exhibition causes the
throat of the on-looker to close at the top.

"Poor devil!" said the colonel, coughing tremendously, "We ought to
send him to hospital. He's been manhandled."

Now the adjutant loved his rifles. They were to him as his
grandchildren—the men standing in the first place. He grunted
rebelliously: "I can understand an Afghan stealing, because he's made
that way. But I can't understand his crying. That makes it worse."

The brandy must have affected Dirkovitch, for he lay back in his chair
and stared at the ceiling. There was nothing special in the ceiling
beyond a shadow as of a huge black coffin. Owing to some peculiarity in
the construction of the mess room this shadow was always thrown when
the candles were lighted. It never disturbed the digestion of the White
Hussars. They were, in rather proud of it.

"Is he going to cry all night?" said the colonel, "or are we supposed
to sit up with Little Mildred's guest until he feels better?"

The man in the chair threw up his head and stared at the mess. Outside,
the wheels of the first of those bidden to the festivities crunched the
roadway.

"Oh, my God!" said the man in the chair, and every soul in the mess
rose to his feet. Then the Lushkar captain did a deed for which he
ought to have been given the Victoria Cross—distinguished gallantry in
a fight against overwhelming curiosity. He picked up his team with his
eyes as the hostess picks up the ladies at the opportune moment, and
pausing only by the colonel's chair to say, "This isn't _our_ affair,
you know, sir," led the team into the veranda and the gardens. Hira
Singh was the last, and he looked at Dirkovitch as he moved. But
Dirkovitch had departed into a brandy paradise of his own. His lips
moved without sound, and he was studying the coffin on the ceiling.

"White—white all over," said Basset-Holmer, the adjutant. "What a
pernicious renegade[15] he must be! I wonder where he came from?"

The colonel shook the man gently by the arm, and "Who are you?" said
he.

There was no answer. The man stared round the mess room and smiled in
the colonel's face. Little Mildred, who was always more of a woman than
a man till "Boot and saddle" was sounded, repeated the question in a
voice that would have drawn confidences from a geyser. The man only
smiled. Dirkovitch, at the far end of the table, slid gently from his
chair to the floor, No son of Adam, in this present imperfect world,
can mix the Hussars' champagne with the Hussars' brandy by five and
eight glasses of each without remembering the pit whence he has been
digged and descending thither. The band began to play the tune with
which the White Hussars, from the date of their formation, preface all
their functions. They would sooner be disbanded than abandon that tune.
It is a part of their system. The man straightened himself in his chair
and drummed on the table with his fingers.

"I don't see why we should entertain lunatics," said the colonel; "call
a guard and send him off to the cells. We'll look into the business in
the morning. Give him a glass of wine first, though."

Little Mildred filled a sherry glass with the brandy and thrust it over
to the man. He drank, and the tune rose louder, and he straightened
himself yet more. Then he put out his long-taloned hands to a piece of
plate opposite and fingered it lovingly. There was a mystery connected
with that piece of plate in the shape of a spring, which converted what
was a seven-branched candlestick, three springs each side and one on
the middle, into a sort of wheel-spoke candelabrum[16]. He found the
spring, pressed it, and laughed weakly. He rose from his chair and
inspected a picture on the wall, then moved on to another picture, the
mess watching him without a word.

When he came to the mantelpiece he shook his head and seemed
distressed. A piece of plate representing a mounted hussar in full
uniform caught his eye. He pointed to it, and then to the mantelpiece,
with inquiry in his eyes.

"What is it—oh, what is it?" said Little Mildred. Then, as a mother
might speak to a child, "That is a horse—yes, a horse."

Very slowly came the answer, in a thick, passionless guttural: "Yes,
I—have seen. But—where is _the_ horse?"

You could have heard the hearts of the mess beating as the men drew
back to give the stranger full room in his wanderings. There was no
question of calling the guard.

Again he spoke, very slowly, "Where is _our_ horse?"

There is no saying what happened after that. There is but one horse in
the White Hussars, and his portrait hangs outside the door of the mess
room. He is the piebald drum-horse the king of the regimental band,
that served the regiment for seven-and-thirty years, and in the end was
shot for old age. Half the mess tore the thing down from its place and
thrust it into the man's hands. He placed it above the mantelpiece; it
clattered on the ledge, as his poor hands dropped it, and he staggered
toward the bottom of the table, falling into Mildred's chair. The band
began to play the "River of Years" waltz, and the laughter from the
gardens came into the tobacco-scented mess room. But nobody, even the
youngest, was thinking of waltzes. They all spoke to one another
something after this fashion: "The drum-horse hasn't hung over the
mantelpiece since '67." "How does he know?" "Mildred, go and speak to
him again." "Colonel, what are you going to do?" "Oh, dry up, and give
the poor devil a chance to pull himself together!" "It isn't possible,
anyhow. The man's a lunatic."

Little Mildred stood at the colonel's side talking into his ear. "Will
you be good enough to take your seats, please, gentlemen?" he said, and
the mess dropped into the chairs.

Only Dirkovitch's seat, next to Little Mildred's, was blank, and Little
Mildred himself had found Hira Singh's place. The wide-eyed mess
sergeant filled the glasses in dead silence. Once more the colonel
rose, but his hand shook, and the port spilled on the table as he
looked straight at the man in Little Mildred's chair and said,
hoarsely, "Mr. Vice, the Queen." There was a little pause, but the man
sprang to his feet and answered, without hesitation, "The Queen, God
bless her!" and as he emptied the thin glass he snapped the shank
between his fingers.

Long and long ago, when the Empress of India was a young woman, and
there were no unclean ideals in the land, it was the custom in a few
messes to drink the Queen's toast in broken glass, to the huge delight
of the mess contractors. The custom is now dead, because there is
nothing to break anything for, except now and again the word of a
government, and that has been broken already.

"That settles it," said the colonel, with a gasp. "He's not a sergeant.
What in the world is he?"

The entire mess echoed the word, and the volley of questions would have
scared any man. Small wonder that the ragged, filthy invader could only
smile and shake his head.

From under the table, calm and smiling urbanely[17], rose Dirkovitch,
who had been roused from healthful slumber by feet upon his body. By
the side of the man he rose, and the man shrieked and groveled at his
feet. It was a horrible sight, coming so swiftly upon the pride and
glory of the toast that had brought the strayed wits together.

Dirkovitch made no offer to raise him, but Little Mildred heaved him up
in an instant. It is not good that a gentleman who can answer to the
Queen's toast should lie at the feet of a subaltern of Cossacks.

The hasty action tore the wretch's upper clothing nearly to the waist,
and his body was seamed with dry black scars. There is only one weapon
in the world that cuts in parallel lines, and it is neither the cane
nor the cat. Dirkovitch saw the marks, and the pupils of his eyes
dilated—also, his face changed. He said something that sounded like
"Shto ve takete"; and the man, fawning, answered, "Chetyre."

"What's that?" said everybody together.

"His number. That is number four, you know." Dirkovitch spoke very
thickly.

"What has a Queen's officer to do with a qualified number?" said the
colonel, and there rose an unpleasant growl round the table.

"How can I tell?" said the affable Oriental, with a sweet smile. "He is
a—how you have it?—escape—runaway, from over there."

He nodded toward the darkness of the night.

"Speak to him, if he'll answer you, and speak to him gently," said
Little Mildred, settling the man in a chair. It seemed most improper to
all present that Dirkovitch. should sip brandy as he talked in purring,
spitting Russian to the creature who answered so feebly and with such
evident dread. But since Dirkovitch appeared to understand, no man said
a word. They breathed heavily, leaning forward, in the long gaps of the
conversation. The next time that they have no engagements on hand the
White Hussars intend to go to St. Petersburg and learn Russian.

"He does not know how many years ago," said Dirkovitch, facing the
mess, "but he says it was very long ago, in a war, I think that there
was an accident. He says he was of this glorious and distinguished
regiment in the war."

"The rolls! The rolls! Holmer, get the rolls!" said Little Mildred, and
the adjutant dashed off bareheaded to the orderly room where the rolls
of the regiment were kept. He returned just in time to hear Dirkovitch
conclude, "Therefore I am most sorry to say there was an accident,
which would have been, reparable if he had apologized to our colonel,
whom he had insulted."

Another growl, which the colonel tried to beat down. The mess was in no
mood to weigh insults to Russian colonels just then.

"He does not remember, but I think that there was an accident, and so
he was not exchanged among the prisoners, but he was sent to another
place—how do you say?—the country. _So_, he says, he came here. He does
not know how he came. Eh? He _was_ at Chepany[18]"—the man caught the
word, nodded, and shivered—"at Zhigansk[19] and Irkutsk[20]. I cannot
understand how he escaped. He says, too, that he was in the forests for
many years, but how many years he has forgotten—that with many things.
It was an accident; done because he did not apologise to our colonel.
Ah!"

Instead of echoing Dirkovitch's sigh of regret, it is sad to record
that the White Hussars livelily exhibited unchristian delight and other
emotions, hardly restrained by their sense of hospitality. Holmer flung
the frayed and yellow regimental rolls on the table, and the men flung
themselves atop of these.

"Steady! Fifty-six—fifty-five—fifty-four," said Holmer. "Here we are.
'Lieutenant Austin Limmason—_missing_.' That was before Sebastopol[21].
What an infernal shame! Insulted one of their colonels, and was quietly
shipped off. Thirty years of his life wiped out."

"But he never apologized. Said he'd see him——first," chorussed the
mess.

"Poor devil! I suppose he never had the chance afterward. How did he
come here?" said the colonel.

The dingy heap in the chair could give no answer.

"Do you know who you are?"

It laughed weakly.

"Do you know that you are Limmason—Lieutenant Limmason, of the White
Hussars?"

Swift as a shot came the answer, in a slightly surprised tone, "Yes,
I'm Limmason, of course." The light died out in his eyes, and he
collapsed afresh, watching every motion of Dirkovitch with terror. A
flight from Siberia may fix a few elementary facts in the mind, but it
does not lead to continuity of thought. The man could not explain how,
like a homing pigeon, he had found his way to his own old mess again.
Of what he had suffered or seen he knew nothing. He cringed before
Dirkovitch as instinctively as he had pressed the spring of the
candlestick, sought the picture of the drum-horse, and answered to the
Queen's toast. The rest was a blank that the dreaded Russian tongue
could only in part remove. His head bowed on his breast, and he giggled
and cowered alternately.

The devil that lived in the brandy prompted Dirkovitch at this
extremely inopportune moment to make a speech. He rose, swaying
slightly, gripped the table edge, while his eyes glowed like opals, and
began:—"Fellow-soldiers glorious—true friends and hospitables. It was
an accident, and deplorable—most deplorable." Here he smiled sweetly
all round the mess. "But you will think of this little, little thing.
So little, is it not? The czar! Posh! I slap my fingers—I snap my
fingers at him. Do I believe in him? No! But the Slav who has done
nothing, _him_ I believe. Seventy—how much?—millions that have done
nothing—not one thing. Napoleon was an episode." He banged a hand on
the table. "Hear you, old peoples, we have done nothing in the
world—out here. All our work is to do: and it shall be done, old
peoples. Get away!" He waved his hand imperiously, and pointed to the
man. "You see him. He is not good to see. He was just one little—oh, so
little—accident, that no one remembered. Now he is _That_. So will you
be, brother-soldiers so brave—so will you be. But you will never come
back. You will all go where he has gone, or"—he pointed to the great
coffin shadow on the ceiling, and muttering, "Seventy millions—get
away, you old people," fell asleep.

"Sweet, and to the point," said Little Mildred. "What's the use of
getting wroth? Let's make the poor devil comfortable."

But that was a matter suddenly and swiftly taken from the loving hands
of the White Hussars. The lieutenant had returned only to go away again
three days later, when the wail of the "Dead March" and the tramp of
the squadrons told the wondering station, that saw no gap in the table,
an officer of the regiment had resigned his new-found commission.

And Dirkovitch—bland, supple, and always genial—went away too by a
night train. Little Mildred and another saw him off, for he was the
guest of the mess, and even had he smitten the colonel with the open
hand the law of the mess allowed no relaxation of hospitality.

"Good-by, Dirkovitch, and a pleasant journey," said Little Mildred.

"_Au revoir[22]_ my true friends," said the Russian.

"Indeed! But we thought you were going home?"

"Yes; but I will come again. My friends, is that road shut?" He pointed
to where the north star burned over the Khyber Pass.

"By Jove! I forgot. Of course. Happy to meet you, old man, any time you
like. Got everything you want,—cheroots, ice, bedding? That's all
right. Well, _au revoir_, Dirkovitch."

"Um," said the other man, as the tail-lights of the train grew small.
"Of—all—the—unmitigated[23]—"

Little Mildred answered nothing, but watched the north star, and hummed
a selection from a recent burlesque that had much delighted the White
Hussars. It ran:—

     "I'm sorry for Mister Bluebeard,

     I'm sorry to cause him pain;

     But a terrible spree there's sure to be

     When he comes back again."

NOTES

[1] _The Man Who Was_ was written in 1889.

[2] 46:6 anomaly. Deviation from type.

[3] 47:1 Hussars. Light-horse troopers armed with sabre and carbine.

[4] 47:1 Peshawur. City in British India.

[5] 47:7 Tyrones. From a county in Ireland by this name.

[6] 47:26 Burmah. In southeastern Asia. Part of the British Empire.

[7] 47:27 Irrawaddy. Chief river of Burma.

[8] 48:27 Sotnia. Company of the Cossacks.

[9] 50:14 rupee. Indian coin worth about forty-eight cents.

[10] 50:21 vendettas. Private blood-feuds.

[11] 51:14 Punjab. Country of five rivers, tributaries of the Indus.

[12] 81:26 Sambhur. A rusine deer found in India.

[13] 51:26 nilghai. Antelope with hind legs shorter than its fore-legs.

[14] 54:9 expurgated. Purified.

[15] 57:23 renegade. One who deserts his faith.

[16] 58:26 candelabrum. Stand supporting several lamps.

[17] 61:3 urbanely. Politely.

[18] 63:2 Chepany. Town in Siberia.

[19] 63:4 Zhigansk. Town in Siberia.

[20] 63:4 Irkutsk. Province and city in Siberia.

[21] 63:17 Sebastopol. Seaport in Russia.

[22] 65:26 Au revoir. Till we meet again.

[23] 66:6 unmitigated. As bad as can be.

BIOGRAPHICAL REFERENCES

_Essays on Modern Novelists_, William Lyon Phelps.

_A Kipling Primer_, Knowles.

_Rudyard Kipling_, Richard Le Galliene.

"Kipling to French Eyes," _Bookman_, 26: 584.

"Life of Kipling," _Encyclopaedia Britannica.

"Life of Kipling," _The Universal Encyclopedia_.

BIOGRAPHY

Rudyard Kipling, the most vigorous, versatile, and highly endowed of
the present-day writers of fiction, was born in Bombay, India, December
30, 1865. His place of birth and extensive travelling make him more
Anglo-Saxon than British. His father was for many years connected with
the schools of art at Bombay and Lahore in India. His mother, Alice
MacDonald, was the daughter of a Methodist clergyman.

Kipling was brought to England when he was five years old to be
educated. While in college at Westward Ho he edited the _College
Chronicle_. For this paper he contributed regularly, poetry and
stories. After his school days and on his return to India, he served on
the editorial staff of the Lahore _Civil and Military Gazette_ from
1882 to 1887, and was assistant editor of the _Pioneer_ at Allahabad
from 1887 to 1889.

Kipling has travelled extensively. He is at home in India, China,
Japan, Africa, Australia, England, and America. The odd part about his
realistic observations, however, is that his notes, whether written
about California or India, are often repudiated by the people whom he
has visited. After visiting England and the United States in a vain
effort to find a publisher for his writings, he returned to India and
published in the _Pioneer_ his _American Notes_, which were immediately
reproduced in book form in New York in 1891.

He married Miss Balestier of New York in 1892. They settled at
Brattleboro, Vermont, immediately after their marriage and lived there
until 1896. Kipling revisited the United States in 1899. While on this
trip he suffered a severe attack of pneumonia which brought out a
demonstration of interest from the American people that clearly showed
their appreciation of him as a man and a writer.

CRITICISMS

Kipling is journalistic in all his writings. Oftentimes his material is
very thin, flippant, and sensational, but he always is interesting, for
he possesses the expert reporter's unerring judgment for choosing the
essentials of his situation, character, or description, that catch and
hold the reader's attention. In his earlier writings, like _Plain Tales
from the Hills_ or _The Jungle Books_, the radical racial differences
between his characters and readers, and the background of primitive,
mysterious India caught the reading world and instantly established
Kipling's fame.

His technique is brilliant, his wit keen, and his energy of the bold
and dashing military type. This audacious energy leads him very often
into sprawling situations, a worship of imperialism, and reckless
statements concerning moral and spiritual laws. Unlike Bret Harte, who
was in many respects one of Kipling's ideals, he leaves his bad and
coarse characters disreputable to the end. This is due in a large
measure to the lack of warmth and light in his writings. In
contradiction to this type of his works his _William the Conqueror_ and
_An Habitation Enforced_ are filled with a gentle-human sympathy that
causes us to forget and forgive any vulgarity he may have used in his
more primitive and coarse characters. Even Kipling partisans must
sometimes wish that Kipling's vision were not so dimmed by the British
flag and that he might forget for a time the British soldier he loves
so ardently.

His writings since 1899 are much more mechanical than his earlier
works. He seems, at times, to resort to the orator's superficial tricks
in his attempts to attract readers. The _Athenaeum_, a friendly organ,
says of his later work: "In his new part—the missionary of Empire—Mr.
Kipling is living the strenuous life. He has frankly abandoned story
telling, and is using his complete and powerful armory in the interests
of patriotic zeal."

Whatever may be the final judgment of the world concerning Kipling's
claim to literary genius, the young student may rest assured that there
is no one in England who can compare with this strenuous and versatile
writer. He is original and powerful, interesting and realistic. He is a
lover of the men who earn their bread by the sweat of their faces and a
despiser of "flannelled fools." He lacks the day-dreams of Stevenson
and preaches from every housetop the gospel of virile, acting morality.
Many of his readers have criticised adversely his spiritual teachings,
because of the furious energy with which he denounces an apathetic
religion and eulogizes the person who works with all his might, day
after day, for the highest he knows and never fears the day of death
and judgment.

GENERAL REFERENCES

_The Book of the Short Story_, Alexander Jessup.

_The Short Story in English_, Henry Seidel Canby.

_Bibliography of Kipling's Works_, Eugene P, Saxton.

"Contradictory Elements in Rudyard Kipling," _Current Literature_, 44: