
"Concentrate, concentrate," Psychband interrupted. "Divert the weapon
by mind force." Ixmal concentrated, focusing ten billion thought units
on the oncoming warhead. It flashed unswervingly past Mars, flicking
like a heavenly rapier toward earth, its velocity unbelievable.

"The moon! The moon! Use the moon," Psychband cried. Yes, the moon.
He shook earth's satellite. An additional ten billion thought units
reversed its orbit; he sped it up, hurling the Moon toward interception
with Zale-3's warhead. Too late!

"Think, think," Psychband urged. Ixmal mustered another two billion
thought units, to no avail. The terrible weapon bashed past the moon,
only seconds from earth.

"Hurry!" Psychband screamed. Ixmal was trying to muster another two
billion thought units when the alien warhead struck. There was a
horrible shattering thousandths of a second before consciousness fled.
Amorphic blackness. Night. Nothingness.

Ixmal never saw "Star-Blaster" after it passed through the asteroid
belt--never saw the disturbance in one minute sector of Jupiter's
planetary system as Callisto flamed into cosmic dust. Nor did he
see the forests around him burst into roaring flames, nor hear the
screaming animals and strange man-forms which fled in howling terror.

Much later the man-forms returned.

Some of the more fearless crept to the very edge of the huge crater
where the batholith had stood. They looked with awe into its scarred
depths, jabbering excitedly. One of them remained long after the others
had gone until, in the swiftly gathering darkness, the first bright
stars of evening gleamed.

The man-form did something which none of his kind had ever done before.
He lifted his eyes skyward, watching for a long time.


                                THE END

