
Winthrop left early the next morning so as not to be late for work.
As it turned out, he was unable to get off a belt at the proper
landing--too many people in the way--and it took him fifteen minutes to
retrace his steps. He arrived exactly on time.

The chief of the tightening crew was a big, bluff man with a red face.
He took Winthrop in tow and showed him how they worked. The crew chief
had a vast knowledge of the crawl spaces in the interior of the
building. He showed Winthrop the blueprints from which the tightening
crew worked, and explained that by co√∂rdinating their work with all the
other tightening crews they made one complete round of the building
every eight years. By then it was time to do it again; the nuts worked
loose from the constant expansion and contraction. It was quite a job
keeping track of the area that the tightening crew covered; it was a
large crew. But each member turned in daily reports, and there was a
large clerical staff to keep the records straight. In fact, there were
more men keeping records than there were doing the actual tightening
work. The chief pointed out that Winthrop was to be one of the elite,
one of those whose work justified the existence of the huge staff. The
tone of the chief's voice made it clear that there was a kind of quiet
pride among the men who did the actual work. The chief issued Winthrop
his wrench and showed him where to start.

The day passed swiftly. The tightening of the nuts was not so bad,
although Winthrop's arm grew sore after a while. The difficult part
was gaining access to the nuts in the first place. Winthrop had to use
all his agility to wriggle through confined places. Yet it was good to
be working again, good to feel the sweat start from his brow from hard
work instead of from the press of people.

In a week Winthrop was no longer dog-tired when he got home at night.
There was much laughter in the Winthrop household, much reading and
playing games and telling stories. They even watched the TV screen now
and then; somehow it no longer seemed so fruitless. The monotony of
Standard Fare was broken; the head of the house was working steadily.
It was now possible to plan ahead for a variety of meals, and that made
it easier to wait when there was nothing to eat but Standard Fare.

Winthrop developed skill and speed at locating and tightening the nuts.
He soon covered in a day a larger area than any other man, and the
chief told him that he was his best man. Winthrop came to share the
pride and sense of responsibility that all the other tighteners felt.
They were a select group, and they knew it; all the others looked up to
them.

It was after dinner one night that Winthrop sat back, hooked his thumbs
in the armholes of his shirt, and watched Ann and Davy finish the
half-dozen peas. They looked at him and smiled, and his heart warmed.
"You know," he said, "I think I'll visit John Barlow for a few minutes.
I haven't seen him since he gave up his store. Do you mind, dear?"

Ann shook her head. "No, you run along. I'll play with Davy for a while
and then put him to bed. Don't stay too long."

Barlow answered Winthrop's knock. "Well, Jeremiah. Come in, man, come
in."

Winthrop walked in and the two men stood looking at each other.
Winthrop was surprised at how well Barlow looked, and he said so.

Barlow laughed. "Yes, the last time we met I was pretty far down in
the dumps, I guess. But I'm working, Jeremiah. I'm actually working.
Important work, too!"

His enthusiasm was infectious and Winthrop found himself laughing. "I'm
glad for you, John. And I know how you feel, because I'm working too."

Barlow stepped forward and wrung his hand. "That's fine, man, fine!
Government, I guess, just like mine. It isn't so bad, is it? Not nearly
as bad as we thought. Good steady important work makes a man feel like
it's worth living."

Helen Barlow came out of the other room. "Why, Jeremiah. I didn't know
you were here. How nice to see you."

"Yes, and he's working," said Barlow.

"Oh, I'm so happy for you, Jeremiah. Congratulations. And that reminds
me, John." She turned to her husband. "You have to get ready to go to
work. You know how long it takes to get there even though it's in the
building."

"Right. I'll get ready. Jeremiah, I'm sorry that I have to go, but why
don't you stay?"

"No, John. I just stopped in to say hello. You come up and see us real
soon."

"I certainly will."

There was an exchange of good-byes, and Winthrop left.

Barlow went into the other room and came out immediately with his
wrench. He waved it playfully at his wife. "Got to go," he said. "The
loosening crew won't wait." And he blew a kiss at his wife and went off
to work.



