




[Transcriber's Note:
This eBook was produced from _Weird Tales_, March 1951, pp. 26-36.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright
on this publication was renewed.]




_Something of the wonder that must have come to men
seeking magic in the sky in days long vanished._




The Mississippi Saucer




[Illustration]

*Heading by Jon Arfstrom*




_By Frank Belknap Long_


Jimmy watched the _Natchez Belle_ draw near, a shining eagerness in his
stare. He stood on the deck of the shantyboat, his toes sticking out of
his socks, his heart knocking against his ribs. Straight down the river
the big packet boat came, purpling the water with its shadow, its
smokestacks belching soot.

Jimmy had a wild talent for collecting things. He knew exactly how to
infuriate the captains without sticking out his neck. Up and down the
Father of Waters, from the bayous of Louisiana to the Great Sandy other
little shantyboat boys envied Jimmy and tried hard to imitate him.

But Jimmy had a very special gift, a genius for pantomime. He'd wait
until there was a glimmer of red flame on the river and small objects
stood out with a startling clarity. Then he'd go into his act.

Nothing upset the captains quite so much as Jimmy's habit of holding a
big, croaking bullfrog up by its legs as the riverboats went steaming
past. It was a surefire way of reminding the captains that men and frogs
were brothers under the skin. The puffed-out throat of the frog told the
captains exactly what Jimmy thought of their cheek.

Jimmy refrained from making faces, or sticking out his tongue at the
grinning roustabouts. It was the frog that did the trick.

In the still dawn things came sailing Jimmy's way, hurled by captains
with a twinkle of repressed merriment dancing in eyes that were kindlier
and more tolerant than Jimmy dreamed.

Just because shantyboat folk had no right to insult the riverboats Jimmy
had collected forty empty tobacco tins, a down-at-heels shoe, a Sears
Roebuck catalogue and--more rolled up newspapers than Jimmy could ever
read.

Jimmy could read, of course. No matter how badly Uncle Al needed a new
pair of shoes, Jimmy's education came first. So Jimmy had spent six
winters ashore in a first-class grammar school, his books paid for out
of Uncle Al's "New Orleans" money.

Uncle Al, blowing on a vinegar jug and making sweet music, the holes in
his socks much bigger than the holes in Jimmy's socks. Uncle Al shaking
his head and saying sadly, "Some day, young fella, I ain't gonna sit
here harmonizing. No siree! I'm gonna buy myself a brand new store suit,
trade in this here jig jug for a big round banjo, and hie myself off to
the Mardi Gras. Ain't too old thataway to git a little fun out of life,
young fella!"

Poor old Uncle Al. The money he'd saved up for the Mardi Gras never
seemed to stretch far enough. There was enough kindness in him to
stretch like a rainbow over the bayous and the river forests of sweet,
rustling pine for as far as the eye could see. Enough kindness to wrap
all of Jimmy's life in a glow, and the life of Jimmy's sister as well.

Jimmy's parents had died of winter pneumonia too soon to appreciate
Uncle Al. But up and down the river everyone knew that Uncle Al was a
great man.

       *       *       *       *       *

Enemies? Well, sure, all great men made enemies, didn't they?

The Harmon brothers were downright sinful about carrying their feuding
meanness right up to the doorstep of Uncle Al, if it could be said that
a man living in a shantyboat had a doorstep.

Uncle Al made big catches and the Harmon brothers never seemed to have
any luck. So, long before Jimmy was old enough to understand how
corrosive envy could be the Harmon brothers had started feuding with
Uncle Al.

"Jimmy, here comes the _Natchez Belle_! Uncle Al says for you to get him
a newspaper. The newspaper you got him yesterday he couldn't read
no-ways. It was soaking wet!"

Jimmy turned to glower at his sister. Up and down the river Pigtail Anne
was known as a tomboy, but she wasn't--no-ways. She was Jimmy's little
sister. That meant Jimmy was the man in the family, and wore the pants,
and nothing Pigtail said or did could change that for one minute.

"Don't yell at me!" Jimmy complained. "How can I get Captain Simmons mad
if you get me mad first? Have a heart, will you?"

But Pigtail Anne refused to budge. Even when the _Natchez Belle_ loomed
so close to the shantyboat that it blotted out the sky she continued to
crowd her brother, preventing him from holding up the frog and making
Captain Simmons squirm.

But Jimmy got the newspaper anyway. Captain Simmons had a keen insight
into tomboy psychology, and from the bridge of the _Natchez Belle_ he
could see that Pigtail was making life miserable for Jimmy.

True--Jimmy had no respect for packet boats and deserved a good
trouncing. But what a scrapper the lad was! Never let it be said that in
a struggle between the sexes the men of the river did not stand shoulder
to shoulder.

The paper came sailing over the shining brown water like a white-bellied
buffalo cat shot from a sling.

Pigtail grabbed it before Jimmy could give her a shove. Calmly she
unwrapped it, her chin tilted in bellicose defiance.

As the _Natchez Belle_ dwindled around a lazy, cypress-shadowed bend
Pigtail Anne became a superior being, wrapped in a cosmopolitan aura. A
wide-eyed little girl on a swaying deck, the great outside world rushing
straight toward her from all directions.

Pigtail could take that world in her stride. She liked the fashion page
best, but she was not above clicking her tongue at everything in the
paper.

"Kidnap plot linked to airliner crash killing fifty," she read. "Red Sox
blank Yanks! Congress sits today, vowing vengeance! Million dollar
heiress elopes with a clerk! Court lets dog pick owner! Girl of eight
kills her brother in accidental shooting!"

"I ought to push your face right down in the mud," Jimmy muttered.

"Don't you dare! I've a right to see what's going on in the world!"

"You said the paper was for Uncle Al!"

"It is--when I get finished with it."

Jimmy started to take hold of his sister's wrist and pry the paper from
her clasp. Only started--for as Pigtail wriggled back sunlight fell on a
shadowed part of the paper which drew Jimmy's gaze as sunlight draws
dew.

_Exciting_ wasn't the word for the headline. It seemed to blaze out of
the page at Jimmy as he stared, his chin nudging Pigtail's shoulder.


                       NEW FLYING MONSTER REPORTED
                        BLAZING GULF STATE SKIES


Jimmy snatched the paper and backed away from Pigtail, his eyes glued to
the headline.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was kind to his sister, however. He read the news item aloud, if an
account so startling could be called an item. To Jimmy it seemed more
like a dazzling burst of light in the sky.

"A New Orleans resident reported today that he saw a big bright object
'roundish like a disk' flying north, against the wind. 'It was all
lighted up from inside!' the observer stated. 'As far as I could tell
there were no signs of life aboard the thing. It was much bigger than
any of the flying saucers previously reported!'"

"People keep seeing them!" Jimmy muttered, after a pause. "Nobody knows
where they come from! Saucers flying through the sky, high up at night.
In the daytime, too! Maybe we're being _watched_, Pigtail!"

"Watched? Jimmy, what do you mean? What you talking about?"

Jimmy stared at his sister, the paper jiggling in his clasp. "It's way
over your head, Pigtail!" he said sympathetically. "I'll prove it!
What's a planet?"

"A star in the sky, you dope!" Pigtail almost screamed. "Wait'll Uncle
Al hears what a meanie you are. If I wasn't your sister you wouldn't
dare grab a paper that doesn't belong to you."

Jimmy refused to be enraged. "A planet's not a star, Pigtail," he said
patiently. "A star's a big ball of fire like the sun. A planet is small
and cool, like the Earth. Some of the planets may even have people on
them. Not people like us, but people all the same. Maybe we're just
frogs to them!"

"You're crazy, Jimmy! Crazy, crazy, you hear?"

Jimmy started to reply, then shut his mouth tight. Big waves were
nothing new in the wake of steamboats, but the shantyboat wasn't just
riding a swell. It was swaying and rocking like a floating barrel in the
kind of blow Shantyboaters dreaded worse than the thought of dying.

Jimmy knew that a big blow could come up fast. Straight down from the
sky in gusts, from all directions, banging against the boat like a
drunken roustabout, slamming doors, tearing away mooring planks.

       *       *       *       *       *

The river could rise fast too. Under the lashing of a hurricane blowing
up from the gulf the river could lift a shantyboat right out of the
water, and smash it to smithereens against a tree.

But now the blow was coming from just one part of the sky. A funnel of
wind was churning the river into a white froth and raising big swells
directly offshore. But the river wasn't rising and the sun was shining
in a clear sky.

Jimmy knew a dangerous floodwater storm when he saw one. The sky had to
be dark with rain, and you had to feel scared, in fear of drowning.

Jimmy was scared, all right. That part of it rang true. But a hollow,
sick feeling in his chest couldn't mean anything by itself, he told
himself fiercely.

Pigtail Anne saw the disk before Jimmy did. She screamed and pointed
skyward, her twin braids standing straight out in the wind like the
ropes on a bale of cotton, when smokestacks collapse and a savage
howling sends the river ghosts scurrying for cover.

Straight down out of the sky the disk swooped, a huge, spinning shape
as flat as a buckwheat cake swimming in a golden haze of butterfat.

But the disk didn't remind Jimmy of a buckwheat cake. It made him think
instead of a slowly turning wheel in the pilot house of a rotting old
riverboat, a big, ghostly wheel manned by a steersman a century dead,
his eye sockets filled with flickering swamp lights.

It made Jimmy want to run and hide. Almost it made him want to cling to
his sister, content to let her wear the pants if only he could be spared
the horror.

For there was something so chilling about the downsweeping disk that
Jimmy's heart began leaping like a vinegar jug bobbing about in the wake
of a capsizing fishboat.

Lower and lower the disk swept, trailing plumes of white smoke, lashing
the water with a fearful blow. Straight down over the cypress wilderness
that fringed the opposite bank, and then out across the river with a
long-drawn whistling sound, louder than the air-sucking death gasps of a
thousand buffalo cats.

Jimmy didn't see the disk strike the shining broad shoulders of the
Father of Waters, for the bend around which the _Natchez Belle_ had
steamed so proudly hid the sky monster from view. But Jimmy did see the
waterspout, spiraling skyward like the atom bomb explosion he'd goggled
at in the pages of an old _Life_ magazine, all smudged now with oily
thumbprints.

Just a roaring for an instant--and a big white mushroom shooting
straight up into the sky. Then, slowly, the mushroom decayed and fell
back, and an awful stillness settled down over the river.

       *       *       *       *       *

The stillness was broken by a shrill cry from Pigtail Anne. "It was a
flying saucer! Jimmy, we've seen one! We've seen one! We've--"

"Shut your mouth, Pigtail!"

Jimmy shaded his eyes and stared out across the river, his chest a
throbbing ache.

He was still staring when a door creaked behind him.

Jimmy trembled. A tingling fear went through him, for he found it hard
to realize that the disk had swept around the bend out of sight. To his
overheated imagination it continued to fill all of the sky above him,
overshadowing the shantyboat, making every sound a threat.

Sucking the still air deep into his lungs, Jimmy swung about.

Uncle Al was standing on the deck in a little pool of sunlight, his
gaunt, hollow-cheeked face set in harsh lines. Uncle Al was shading his
eyes too. But he was staring up the river, not down.

"Trouble, young fella," he grunted. "Sure as I'm a-standin' here. A
barrelful o' trouble--headin' straight for us!"

Jimmy gulped and gestured wildly toward the bend. "It came down _over
there_, Uncle Al!" he got out. "Pigtail saw it, too! A big, flying--"

"The Harmons are a-comin', young fella," Uncle Al drawled, silencing
Jimmy with a wave of his hand. "Yesterday I rowed over a Harmon jug line
without meanin' to. Now Jed Harmon's tellin' everybody I stole his
fish!"

Very calmly Uncle Al cut himself a slice of the strongest tobacco on the
river and packed it carefully in his pipe, wadding it down with his
thumb.

He started to put the pipe between his teeth, then thought better of it.

"I can bone-feel the Harmon boat a-comin', young fella," he said, using
the pipe to gesture with. "Smooth and quiet over the river like a
moccasin snake."

Jimmy turned pale. He forgot about the disk and the mushrooming water
spout. When he shut his eyes he saw only a red haze overhanging the
river, and a shantyboat nosing out of the cypresses, its windows
spitting death.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jimmy knew that the Harmons had waited a long time for an excuse. The
Harmons were law-respecting river rats with sharp teeth. Feuding wasn't
lawful, but murder could be made lawful by whittling down a lie until it
looked as sharp as the truth.

The Harmon brothers would do their whittling down with double-barreled
shotguns. It was easy enough to make murder look like a lawful crime if
you could point to a body covered by a blanket and say, "We caught him
stealing our fish! He was a-goin' to kill us--so we got him first."

No one would think of lifting the blanket and asking Uncle Al about it.
A man lying stiff and still under a blanket could no more make himself
heard than a river cat frozen in the ice.

"Git inside, young 'uns. _Here they come!_"

Jimmy's heart skipped a beat. Down the river in the sunlight a
shantyboat was drifting. Jimmy could see the Harmon brothers crouching
on the deck, their faces livid with hate, sunlight glinting on their
arm-cradled shotguns.

The Harmon brothers were not in the least alike. Jed Harmon was tall and
gaunt, his right cheek puckered by a knife scar, his cruel, thin-lipped
mouth snagged by his teeth. Joe Harmon was small and stout, a little
round man with bushy eyebrows and the flabby face of a cottonmouth
snake.

"Go inside, Pigtail," Jimmy said, calmly. "I'm a-going to stay and
fight!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Uncle Al grabbed Jimmy's arm and swung him around. "You heard what I
said, young fella. Now git!"

"I want to stay here and fight with you, Uncle Al," Jimmy said.

"Have you got a gun? Do you want to be blown apart, young fella?"

"I'm not scared, Uncle Al," Jimmy pleaded. "You might get wounded. I
know how to shoot straight, Uncle Al. If you get hurt I'll go right on
fighting!"

"No you won't, young fella! Take Pigtail inside. You hear me? You want
me to take you across my knee and beat the livin' stuffings out of you?"

Silence.

Deep in his uncle's face Jimmy saw an anger he couldn't buck. Grabbing
Pigtail Anne by the arm, he propelled her across the deck and into the
dismal front room of the shantyboat.

The instant he released her she glared at him and stamped her foot. "If
Uncle Al gets shot it'll be your fault," she said cruelly. Then
Pigtail's anger really flared up.

"The Harmons wouldn't dare shoot us 'cause we're children!"

For an instant brief as a dropped heartbeat Jimmy stared at his sister
with unconcealed admiration.

"You can be right smart when you've got nothing else on your mind,
Pigtail," he said. "If they kill me they'll hang sure as shooting!"

Jimmy was out in the sunlight again before Pigtail could make a grab for
him.

Out on the deck and running along the deck toward Uncle Al. He was still
running when the first blast came.

       *       *       *       *       *

It didn't sound like a shotgun blast. The deck shook and a big swirl of
smoke floated straight toward Jimmy, half blinding him and blotting
Uncle Al from view.

When the smoke cleared Jimmy could see the Harmon shantyboat. It was
less than thirty feet away now, drifting straight past and rocking with
the tide like a topheavy flatbarge.

On the deck Jed Harmon was crouching down, his gaunt face split in a
triumphant smirk. Beside him Joe Harmon stood quivering like a mound of
jelly, a stick of dynamite in his hand, his flabby face looking almost
gentle in the slanting sunlight.

There was a little square box at Jed Harmon's feet. As Joe pitched Jed
reached into the box for another dynamite stick. Jed was passing the
sticks along to his brother, depending on wad dynamite to silence Uncle
Al forever.

Wildly Jimmy told himself that the guns had been just a trick to mix
Uncle Al up, and keep him from shooting until they had him where they
wanted him.

Uncle Al was shooting now, his face as grim as death. His big heavy gun
was leaping about like mad, almost hurling him to the deck.

Jimmy saw the second dynamite stick spinning through the air, but he
never saw it come down. All he could see was the smoke and the
shantyboat rocking, and another terrible splintering crash as he went
plunging into the river from the end of a rising plank, a sob strangling
in his throat.

Jimmy struggled up from the river with the long leg-thrusts of a
terrified bullfrog, his head a throbbing ache. As he swam shoreward he
could see the cypresses on the opposite bank, dark against the sun, and
something that looked like the roof of a house with water washing over
it.

Then, with mud sucking at his heels, Jimmy was clinging to a slippery
bank and staring out across the river, shading his eyes against the
glare.

Jimmy thought, "I'm dreaming! I'll wake up and see Uncle Joe blowing on
a vinegar jug. I'll see Pigtail, too. Uncle Al will be sitting on the
deck, taking it easy!"

But Uncle Al wasn't sitting on the deck. There was no deck for Uncle Al
to sit upon. Just the top of the shantyboat, sinking lower and lower,
and Uncle Al swimming.

Uncle Al had his arm around Pigtail, and Jimmy could see Pigtail's white
face bobbing up and down as Uncle Al breasted the tide with his strong
right arm.

Closer to the bend was the Harmon shantyboat. The Harmons were using
their shotguns now, blasting fiercely away at Uncle Al and Pigtail.
Jimmy could see the smoke curling up from the leaping guns and the water
jumping up and down in little spurts all about Uncle Al.

There was an awful hollow agony in Jimmy's chest as he stared, a fear
that was partly a soundless screaming and partly a vision of Uncle Al
sinking down through the dark water and turning it red.

It was strange, though. Something was happening to Jimmy, nibbling away
at the outer edges of the fear like a big, hungry river cat. Making the
fear seem less swollen and awful, shredding it away in little flakes.

There was a white core of anger in Jimmy which seemed suddenly to blaze
up.

He shut his eyes tight.

In his mind's gaze Jimmy saw himself holding the Harmon brothers up by
their long, mottled legs. The Harmon brothers were frogs. Not friendly,
good natured frogs like Uncle Al, but snake frogs. Cottonmouth frogs.

All flannel red were their mouths, and they had long evil fangs which
dripped poison in the sunlight. But Jimmy wasn't afraid of them no-ways.
Not any more. He had too firm a grip on their legs.

"Don't let anything happen to Uncle Al and Pigtail!" Jimmy whispered, as
though he were talking to himself. No--not exactly to himself. To
someone like himself, only larger. Very close to Jimmy, but larger, more
powerful.

"Catch them before they harm Uncle Al! Hurry! _Hurry!_"

There was a strange lifting sensation in Jimmy's chest now. As though he
could shake the river if he tried hard enough, tilt it, send it swirling
in great thunderous white surges clear down to Lake Pontchartrain.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Jimmy didn't want to tilt the river. Not with Uncle Al on it and
Pigtail, and all those people in New Orleans who would disappear right
off the streets. They were frogs too, maybe, but good frogs. Not like
the Harmon brothers.

Jimmy had a funny picture of himself much younger than he was. Jimmy saw
himself as a great husky baby, standing in the middle of the river and
blowing on it with all his might. The waves rose and rose, and Jimmy's
cheeks swelled out and the river kept getting angrier.

No--he must fight that.

"Save Uncle Al!" he whispered fiercely. "Just save him--and Pigtail!"

It began to happen the instant Jimmy opened his eyes. Around the bend in
the sunlight came a great spinning disk, wrapped in a fiery glow.

Straight toward the Harmon shantyboat the disk swept, water spurting up
all about it, its bottom fifty feet wide. There was no collision. Only a
brightness for one awful instant where the shantyboat was twisting and
turning in the current, a brightness that outshone the rising sun.

Just like a camera flashbulb going off, but bigger, brighter. So big and
bright that Jimmy could see the faces of the Harmon brothers fifty times
as large as life, shriveling and disappearing in a magnifying burst of
flame high above the cypress trees. Just as though a giant in the sky
had trained a big burning glass on the Harmon brothers and whipped it
back quick.

Whipped it straight up, so that the faces would grow huge before
dissolving as a warning to all snakes. There was an evil anguish in the
dissolving faces which made Jimmy's blood run cold. Then the disk was
alone in the middle of the river, spinning around and around, the
shantyboat swallowed up.

And Uncle Al was still swimming, fearfully close to it.

The net came swirling out of the disk over Uncle Al like a great,
dew-drenched gossamer web. It enmeshed him as he swam, so gently that he
hardly seemed to struggle or even to be aware of what was happening to
him.

Pigtail didn't resist, either. She simply stopped thrashing in Uncle
Al's arms, as though a great wonder had come upon her.

Slowly Uncle Al and Pigtail were drawn into the disk. Jimmy could see
Uncle Al reclining in the web, with Pigtail in the crook of his arm, his
long, angular body as quiet as a butterfly in its deep winter sleep
inside a swaying glass cocoon.

Uncle Al and Pigtail, being drawn together into the disk as Jimmy
stared, a dull pounding in his chest. After a moment the pounding
subsided and a silence settled down over the river.

Jimmy sucked in his breath. The voices began quietly, as though they had
been waiting for a long time to speak to Jimmy deep inside his head, and
didn't want to frighten him in any way.

"Take it easy, Jimmy! Stay where you are. We're just going to have a
friendly little talk with Uncle Al."

"A t-talk?" Jimmy heard himself stammering.

"We knew we'd find you where life flows simply and serenely, Jimmy.
Your parents took care of that before they left you with Uncle Al.

"You see, Jimmy, we wanted you to study the Earth people on a great,
wide flowing river, far from the cruel, twisted places. To grow up with
them, Jimmy--and to understand them. Especially the Uncle Als. For Uncle
Al is unspoiled, Jimmy. If there's any hope at all for Earth as we guide
and watch it, that hope burns most brightly in the Uncle Als!"

The voice paused, then went on quickly. "You see, Jimmy, you're not
human in the same way that your sister is human--or Uncle Al. But you're
still young enough to feel human, and we want you to feel human, Jimmy."

"W--Who are you?" Jimmy gasped.

"We are the Shining Ones, Jimmy! For wide wastes of years we have
cruised Earth's skies, almost unnoticed by the Earth people. When
darkness wraps the Earth in a great, spinning shroud we hide our ships
close to the cities, and glide through the silent streets in search of
our young. You see, Jimmy, we must watch and protect the young of our
race until sturdiness comes upon them, and they are ready for the Great
Change."

       *       *       *       *       *

For an instant there was a strange, humming sound deep inside Jimmy's
head, like the drowsy murmur of bees in a dew-drenched clover patch.
Then the voice droned on. "The Earth people are frightened by our ships
now, for their cruel wars have put a great fear of death in their
hearts. They watch the skies with sharper eyes, and their minds have
groped closer to the truth.

"To the Earth people our ships are no longer the fireballs of mysterious
legend, haunted will-o'-the-wisps, marsh flickerings and the even more
illusive distortions of the sick in mind. It is a long bold step from
fireballs to flying saucers, Jimmy. A day will come when the Earth
people will be wise enough to put aside fear. Then we can show ourselves
to them as we really are, and help them openly."

The voice seemed to take more complete possession of Jimmy's thoughts
then, growing louder and more eager, echoing through his mind with the
persuasiveness of muted chimes.

"Jimmy, close your eyes tight. We're going to take you across wide gulfs
of space to the bright and shining land of your birth."

Jimmy obeyed.

It was a city, and yet it wasn't like New York or Chicago or any of the
other cities Jimmy had seen illustrations of in the newspapers and
picture magazines.

The buildings were white and domed and shining, and they seemed to tower
straight up into the sky. There were streets, too, weaving in and out
between the domes like rainbow-colored spider webs in a forest of
mushrooms.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were no people in the city, but down the aerial streets shining
objects swirled with the swift easy gliding of flat stones skimming an
edge of running water.

Then as Jimmy stared into the depths of the strange glow behind his
eyelids the city dwindled and fell away, and he saw a huge circular disk
looming in a wilderness of shadows. Straight toward the disk a shining
object moved, bearing aloft on filaments of flame a much smaller object
that struggled and mewed and reached out little white arms.

Closer and closer the shining object came, until Jimmy could see that it
was carrying a human infant that stared straight at Jimmy out of wide,
dark eyes. But before he could get a really good look at the shining
object it pierced the shadows and passed into the disk.

There was a sudden, blinding burst of light, and the disk was gone.

Jimmy opened his eyes.

"You were once like that baby, Jimmy!" the voice said. "You were carried
by your parents into a waiting ship, and then out across wide gulfs of
space to Earth.

"You see, Jimmy, our race was once entirely human. But as we grew to
maturity we left the warm little worlds where our infancy was spent,
and boldly sought the stars, shedding our humanness as sunlight sheds
the dew, or a bright, soaring moth of the night its ugly pupa case.

"We grew great and wise, Jimmy, but not quite wise enough to shed our
human heritage of love and joy and heartbreak. In our childhood we must
return to the scenes of our past, to take root again in familiar soil,
to grow in power and wisdom slowly and sturdily, like a seed dropped
back into the loam which nourished the great flowering mother plant.

"Or like the eel of Earth's seas, Jimmy, that must be spawned in the
depths of the great cold ocean, and swim slowly back to the bright
highlands and the shining rivers of Earth. Young eels do not resemble
their parents, Jimmy. They're white and thin and transparent and have to
struggle hard to survive and grow up.

"Jimmy, you were planted here by your parents to grow wise and strong.
Deep in your mind you knew that we had come to seek you out, for we are
all born human, and are bound one to another by that knowledge, and that
secret trust.

"You knew that we would watch over you and see that no harm would come
to you. You called out to us, Jimmy, with all the strength of your mind
and heart. Your Uncle Al was in danger and you sensed our nearness.

"It was partly your knowledge that saved him, Jimmy. But it took courage
too, and a willingness to believe that you were more than human, and
armed with the great proud strength and wisdom of the Shining Ones."

       *       *       *       *       *

The voice grew suddenly gentle, like a caressing wind.

"You're not old enough yet to go home, Jimmy! Or wise enough. We'll take
you home when the time comes. Now we just want to have a talk with Uncle
Al, to find out how you're getting along."

Jimmy looked down into the river and then up into the sky. Deep down
under the dark, swirling water he could see life taking shape in a
thousand forms. Caddis flies building bright, shining new nests, and
dragonfly nymphs crawling up toward the sunlight, and pollywogs growing
sturdy hindlimbs to conquer the land.

But there were cottonmouths down there too, with death behind their
fangs, and no love for the life that was crawling upward. When Jimmy
looked up into the sky he could see all the blazing stars of space, with
cottonmouths on every planet of every sun.

Uncle Al was like a bright caddis fly building a fine new nest, thatched
with kindness, denying himself bright little Mardi Gras pleasures so
that Jimmy could go to school and grow wiser than Uncle Al.

"That's right, Jimmy. You're growing up--we can see that! Uncle Al says
he told you to bide from the cottonmouths. But you were ready to give
your life for your sister and Uncle Al."

"Shucks, it was nothing!" Jimmy heard himself protesting.

"Uncle Al doesn't think so. And neither do we!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A long silence while the river mists seemed to weave a bright cocoon of
radiance about Jimmy clinging to the bank, and the great circular disk
that had swallowed up Uncle Al.

Then the voices began again. "No reason why Uncle Al shouldn't have a
little fun out of life, Jimmy. Gold's easy to make and we'll make some
right now. A big lump of gold in Uncle Al's hand won't hurt him in any
way."

"Whenever he gets any spending money he gives it away!" Jimmy gulped.

"I know, Jimmy. But he'll listen to you. Tell him you want to go to New
Orleans, too!"

Jimmy looked up quickly then. In his heart was something of the wonder
he'd felt when he'd seen his first riverboat and waited for he knew not
what. Something of the wonder that must have come to men seeking magic
in the sky, the rainmakers of ancient tribes and of days long vanished.

Only to Jimmy the wonder came now with a white burst of remembrance and
recognition.

It was as though he could sense something of himself in the two towering
spheres that rose straight up out of the water behind the disk. Still
and white and beautiful they were, like bubbles floating on a rainbow
sea with all the stars of space behind them.

Staring at them, Jimmy saw himself as he would be, and knew himself for
what he was. It was not a glory to be long endured.

"Now you must forget again, Jimmy! Forget as Uncle Al will forget--until
we come for you. Be a little shantyboat boy! You are safe on the wide
bosom of the Father of Waters. Your parents planted you in a rich and
kindly loam, and in all the finite universes you will find no cosier
nook, for life flows here with a diversity that is infinite
and--_Pigtail_! She gets on your nerves at times, doesn't she, Jimmy?"

"She sure does," Jimmy admitted.

"Be patient with her, Jimmy. She's the only human sister you'll ever
have on Earth."

"I--I'll try!" Jimmy muttered.

       *       *       *       *       *

Uncle Al and Pigtail came out of the disk in an amazingly simple way.
They just seemed to float out, in the glimmering web. Then, suddenly,
there wasn't any disk on the river at all--just a dull flickering where
the sky had opened like a great, blazing furnace to swallow it up.

"I was just swimmin' along with Pigtail, not worryin' too much, 'cause
there's no sense in worryin' when death is starin' you in the face,"
Uncle Al muttered, a few minutes later.

Uncle Al sat on the riverbank beside Jimmy, staring down at his palm,
his vision misted a little by a furious blinking.

"It's gold, Uncle Al!" Pigtail shrilled. "A big lump of solid gold--"

"I just felt my hand get heavy and there it was, young fella, nestling
there in my palm!"

Jimmy didn't seem to be able to say anything.

"High school books don't cost no more than grammar school books, young
fella," Uncle Al said, his face a sudden shining. "Next winter you'll be
a-goin' to high school, sure as I'm a-sittin' here!"

For a moment the sunlight seemed to blaze so brightly about Uncle Al
that Jimmy couldn't even see the holes in his socks.

Then Uncle Al made a wry face. "Someday, young fella, when your books
are all paid for, I'm gonna buy myself a brand new store suit, and hie
myself off to the Mardi Gras. Ain't too old thataway to git a little fun
out of life, young fella!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Note: The following typographical errors in the original
text have been corrected in this eBook:

Page 31: "sunilght" changed to "sunlight"

Page 32: "tie" changed to "tide"




