
Holbrook lowered himself. His heart thuttered, wild for oxygen; he felt
the cold strike into his throat. He had not been so close to weeping
since the hour his mother died.

But--

He avoided Grushenko's hooded stare; he retreated into himself and
buckled on the armor of an engineer's workaday soul. There were
problems to solve; well, let them be solved, as practical problems in
a practical universe. For even this nightmare planet was real. Even it
made logical sense; it had to, if you could only see clearly.

He faced a mighty civilization, perhaps a million years old, which
maintained interplanetary travel, giant computers, all the intricacies
of a technology he did not begin to comprehend. But it ignored the
unhidden human landings on Novaya. But it attacked senselessly when
three strangers appeared--and then did not follow up the attack. It
captured a space vessel with contemptuous ease, did not even bother to
look at the booty, shoved the crew through an obviously cut-and-dried
routine and then into this cell; but cosmos crack open, visitors from
another star could not be an everyday affair! And it was understandable
the Zolotoyans would remove a prisoner's knife, but why his watch?
Well, maybe a watch could be turned into a, oh, a hyperspatial lever.
Maybe they knew how to pull some such stunt and dared not assume the
strangers were ignorant of it. But if so, why didn't they take some
precautions with the outworld spaceship? Hell, it could be a nuclear
time bomb, for all they knew--

The uniforms, the whole repulsive discipline, suggested a totalitarian
state. Could the humans only have encountered a few dull-witted
subordinates so far? That would fit the facts.... No, it wouldn't
either. Because the overlords, who were not fools, would certainly have
been informed of this, and would have taken immediate steps.

Or would they?

Holbrook gasped. "God in heaven!"

"What?" Grushenko trod over to him. "What is it?"

Holbrook struggled to his feet. "Look," he babbled, "we've got to break
out of here. It's our death if we don't. The cold alone will kill us.
And if we don't get back soon, the others will leave this system. I--"

"You will keep silent when the Zolotoyans arrive," said Grushenko. He
raised a fist. "If they do plan to terminate us, we must face it. There
is nothing we can do about it."

"But there is, I tell you! We can! Listen--"

The wall dilated.




                              CHAPTER VI


Three guards stood shoulder to shoulder, their guns pointed inward,
their lovely unhuman faces blank. A red-clad being, shorter than
they, set down a bowl of stew and a container of water. The food was
unidentifiable, but its odor was savory. Holbrook felt sure it had
been manufactured for the Terrestrials.

"For the zoo!" he said aloud. And then, wildly: "No, for the filing
cabinet. File and forget. Lock us up and throw away the key because
_there is nothing else they can do with us_."

Ekaterina caught his arm. "Back," she warned.

Grushenko stood making gestures and talking, under the golden eyes of
the guards. They loomed over him like idols from some unimaginable
futurism. And suddenly the hatred which seethed in Holbrook left him;
he knew nothing but pity. He mourned for Zolotoy the damned, which had
once been so full of hope.

But he must live. His eyes turned to Ekaterina. He heard the frosty
breath rattle in her nostrils. Already the coryza viruses in her
bloodstream were multiplying; chill and oxygen starvation had weakened
her. Fever would come within hours, death within weeks. And Grushenko
would spend weeks trying to communicate. Or if he could be talked
around to Holbrook's beliefs, it might be too late: that electronic
idiot-savant might decide at any moment that the prisoners were safest
if killed--

"I'm sorry," said Holbrook. He punched Ekaterina in the stomach.

She lurched and sat down. Holbrook side-stepped the red Zolotoyan,
moved in under the guards, and seized a blast-gun with both hands. He
brought up his foot in the same motion, against a bony black-clad knee,
and heaved.

The Zolotoyan reeled. Holbrook staggered back, the gun in his hands.
The other two guards trilled and slewed their own weapons about.
Holbrook whipped the blaster up and squeezed its single switch.
Lightning crashed between blue walls.

A signal hooted. Automatic alarms--there would be guards coming,
swarming all over, and their only reaction was to kill. "The computer!"
bawled Holbrook. "We've got to get the computer!" Two hideously charred
bodies were collapsing. The stench of burnt flesh grabbed his gullet.

"You murdering fool!" Grushenko roared it out, leaping at him. Holbrook
reversed his blaster and struck with the butt. Grushenko fell to the
floor, dazed. The third black Zolotoyan fumbled after a dropped gun.
Holbrook destroyed him.

"The computer," he shouted. "It's not a brain, only an automaton."
He reached down, caught Ekaterina by the wrist and hauled her up.
His heart seemed about to burst; rags of darkness swirled before his
eyes. "But it _is_ the interstellar commissar," he groaned. "It's the
only thing able to decide about us ... and now it's sure to decide on
killing--"

"You're insane!" shrieked the woman, from light-years away. She clawed
after his weapon. He swayed in black mists, batted her away with his
own strengthless hands.

"I haven't time now," he whispered. "I love you. Will you come with me?"

He turned and staggered through the door, past the scuttering red
servitor, over the corpses and into the hall. The siren squealed before
him, around him, through him. His feet were leaden clogs; Christ, what
had become of the low gravity--_help me, help me_.

Hands caught his arm. "Lean on me, Eben Petrovitch," she said.

They went down a vaulted corridor full of howling. His temples beat,
as if his brain were trying to escape the skull, but vision cleared a
little. He saw the wall at the end. He stopped by the control stud.

"Let me go through first," he said in his burning throat. "If the
guards get me, remember the computer must be destroyed. We're safe if
it can be destroyed. Wait, now."

The wall gaped for him. He stepped through. The green technicians moved
serenely under the huge machine, servicing it as if he did not exist.
_In a way_, he thought, _I don't_. He sped across the floor. His boots
resounded hollowly on the stone. He came up to the machine and opened
fire.

Thunder roared in the chamber. The technicians twittered and ran around
him. One of them posted himself at a board whose pattern of signaling
lights was too intricate for men to grasp, and called out orders. The
others began to fetch replacement parts. And the siren yammered. It was
like no alarm on Earth; its voice seemed almost alive.

Four guards burst in from the outer hall. Holbrook sprang behind a
technician, who kept stolidly by his rank of levers. The guards halted,
stared around, and began to cast about like sniffing dogs. Holbrook
shot past the green Zolotoyan, dropped one, dropped two. A human would
have sacrificed the enemy's living shield to get at the enemy; but
no black had ever fired on a green. Another guard approached and was
killed. But where had the fourth gotten to?

Holbrook heard the noise and whirled about. The gaunt shape had been
almost upon him, from the rear. Ekaterina had attacked. They rolled
about the floor, she snarling, he with a remote god-like calm even
as he wrestled. He got her by the throat. Holbrook ran up behind and
clubbed his blaster. After more blows than a man could have survived,
the guard slumped.

The woman crawled from beneath, gasping. Holbrook's strength was fled,
his lungs one enormous agony. He sank to the floor beside her. "Are you
all right?" he forced. "Are you hurt, my dearest?"

"Hold."

They crouched side by side and turned faces which bled from the nose
back toward the machine. Ilya Grushenko stood there. A blaster was
poised in his hands. "Drop your gun or I shoot," he said. "You and her
both."

Holbrook's fingers went slack. He heard the remote clatter of his
weapon as it struck stone.

"Thank you, Eben Petrovitch," said Grushenko. "Now they have it proven
to them which of our factions is their friend."

"You don't understand!" choked Holbrook. "Listen to me!"

"Be still. Raise your hands. Ah, there--" Grushenko flicked eyes toward
a pair of guards trotting into the room. "I have them, comrades!" he
whooped.

Their fire converged on him. He ceased to be.

Holbrook had already scooped up his own blaster. He shot down the two
black Zolotoyans. He stood up, swaying and still scrabbling after air.
Ekaterina huddled at his feet. "You see," he said wearily, "we are in
the ultimate collectivist state." She clung to his knees and wept.

He had not fired many bolts into the computer when its siren went
quiet. He assumed that the orders it had been giving were thereby
canceled. He took the woman and they walked away from the pathetically
scurrying greens, out into the hallway, past a few guards who ignored
them, and so to a flying platform.




                              CHAPTER VII


Under the tall fair heaven of Novaya, Holbrook spoke to the chief of
the human outpost. "You can call them back from the _Rurik_," he said.
"There is no more danger."

"But what are the Zolotoyans?" asked Xim√©nez. His eyes went in fear
toward the mountains. "If they are not intelligent beings, then who ...
what ... created their civilization?"

"Their ancestors," said Holbrook. "A very long time ago. They were
great once. But they ended up with a totalitarian government. A place
for everyone and everyone in his place. The holy society, whose very
stasis was holy. Specialized breeds for the different jobs. Some crude
attempts at it have been made on Earth, too. Egypt didn't change for
thousands of years after the pyramids had been built. Diocletian, the
Roman emperor, made all occupations hereditary. The Soviets are trying
that sort of thing at this moment, if they haven't been overthrown
since we left. The Zolotoyans were unlucky: their attempt succeeded."

He shrugged. "When one individual is made exactly like another--when
independent thought is no longer needed, is actually forbidden--what
do you expect? Evolution gets rid of organs which have stopped being
useful. That includes the thinking brain."

"But all that you saw--space travel, police functions, chemical
analysis and synthesis, maintaining those wonderful machines--it is all
done by instinct?" protested Xim√©nez. "No, I cannot believe it!"

"Instinct isn't completely rigid, you know," said Holbrook. "Even a
simple one-loop homeostatic circuit is amazingly flexible and adaptive.
Remember ants or bees or termites on Earth. In their own way, they have
societies as intricate as anything known to me. They even have a sort
of stylized language, as do our neighbors here. Actually, I suspect
the average ant faces more variety and challenge in his life than does
the ordinary Zolotoyan. Remember, they have no natural enemies any
more; and for tens of thousands of years, all the jobs on that highly
automated planet have been stereotyped.

"The mine guards on Novaya ignored our rocket trails beyond the
mountains because--oh, to their perception it couldn't have been
very different from lightning, say. But they had long ago evolved an
instinct to shoot at unknown visitors, simply because large Novayan
animals could interfere with operations. At home, they have little or
no occasion to fight. But apparently they, like the green technicians,
have an inborn obedience to the computer signals."

"Yes," said Xim√©nez. "The computer, what was it?"

Holbrook sighed. "I suppose it was built in the last dying age of
reason. Some atavistic genius (how lonely he must have been!) realized
what was happening. Sooner or later, visitors from space were sure to
arrive. He wanted to give his descendants at least a little defense
against them. He built that machine, which could try to identify them,
could give a few simple orders about their disarmament and care and
feeding, that sort of thing. He used some controlled-mutation process
to breed the technicians that serviced it, and the obedience of the
guards. Or perhaps it was enough to institute a set of laws. There'd be
natural selection toward an instinct.... It really wasn't much he could
do. A poor, clumsy protection against diseases we might have carried,
or wanton looting, or...."

Holbrook lifted his face into the wind. Sunlight streamed through
summer leaves, it fell like a benediction on him and on the young woman
who held his hand. Now, when the technical problem was disposed of, his
voice came more slowly and awkwardly:

"I could pity the Zolotoyans, except that they're beyond it. They are
as empty of selfhood as insects. But the one who built the computer,
can't you almost hear him back in time, asking for our mercy?"

Xim√©nez nodded. "Well," he said, "I do not see why we should not let
the ... fauna ... live. We can learn a great deal from them."

"Including this:" said Holbrook, "that it shall not happen to our race.
We've a planet now, and a whole new science to master. Our children or
our grand-children will return to Earth."

Ekaterina's hand released his, but her arm went about his waist,
drawing him close as if he were a shield. Her eyes ranged the great
strange horizon and she asked, very low, "After all that time here, do
you think they will care about Earth?"

"I don't know," said Holbrook. He tasted the light like rain on his
uplifted face. It was not the sun he remembered. "I don't know,
dearest. I don't even know if it matters."


