
Inbreeding is not, of course, a crime, except against nature. Nor is
it ordinarily dangerous. Combined, however, with the environmental
influences of certain Rim planets, it may cause genuine, true-breeding
mutations within the species, such as monsters, impressiono-telepaths,
psycho-variants and other undesirables which, if allowed to multiply
for a few generations, might become dominant. They are located and
deported to A-type worlds.

It had been an anonymous tip that had brought Wellesley to Ophir,
but in all the inhabited universe, he knew, the Bureau was the sole
guardian of the classic blood strain, and it took no chances.

"What's 'inbreeding,' pa?" said Joseph, tugging solemnly at his
father's sleeve.

"A naughty word of the middle ages," said Sealilly thickly. "A bugaboo
of the mighty sky-chiefs. If we do not co-operate we bring their
lightning upon our heads. Yet, what must we do?"

Wellesley did not smile. "You must inform the colonists that I wish
to interview each member of every family and clan briefly, beginning
tomorrow morning at seven. I do not mind in the least being _persona
non grata_, but if any person fails to show up, or if there is any
trouble, you will be held personally responsible. Moreover, I do not
think you are as drunk as you would like me to believe."

Amos Sealilly bowed, took a flask from his pocket and drained it.

"One other thing. I shall need a place to sleep."

Sealilly smiled. "There is an abandoned native daub-hut behind my
house. You are welcome to it."

"It will serve," answered Wellesley coldly. "There are natives in the
area then?"

"Yes. Bipeds, though not mammalian, you will find. In fact, quite low
in the scale of evolution. They are nearsighted and harmless by day,
but you will be wise to keep to your hut after dark."

"I can take care of myself."

"I'll show you the place," Joseph offered. "I can carry your space kit,
too."
