
It was perfectly simple from that time on. They walked into a village
of the Thrid, on the mainland. It was the village where Ganti had
lived; whose governor had spoken and said and observed that Ganti's
wife wished to enter his household and that Ganti wished her to. Ganti
marched truculently down its wider street. Astonished eyes turned upon
him. Ganti said arrogantly:

"I am the new governor. Call others to see."

The villagers could not question the statement of an official. Not
even the statement that he was an official. So Ganti--with Jorgenson
close behind--swaggered into the local governor's palace. It wasn't
impressive, but merely a leafy, thatched, sprawling complex of small
buildings. Ganti led the way into the inmost portion of the palace and
found a fat, sleeping Thrid with four villager-Thrid fanning him with
huge fans. Ganti shouted, and the fat Thrid sat up, starkly bewildered.

"I speak and say and observe," said Ganti coldly, "that I am the new
governor and that you are about to die, with no one touching you."

The fat Thrid gaped at him. It was incredible. In fact, to a Thrid who
had never heard of a missile weapon--it was impossible. Ganti swung his
strip of cloth by the two cords attached to it. It whirled too swiftly
to be seen clearly. A stone flew terribly straight. There was an impact.

The local governor who had spoken and said and observed that Ganti's
wife wanted to enter his household was quite dead.

"I," said Ganti to his former fellow-villagers, "I am the governor. If
any deny it, they will die with no one touching them."

And that was that.

Ganti grimaced at Jorgenson:

"I'll speak and say and observe something useful for you presently,
Jorgenson. Right now I'm going to march on foot and talk to the
provincial governor. I'll take a train of attendants, so he'll receive
me. Then I'll tell him that he's about to die with nobody touching him.
He's earned it!"

Unquestionably, Ganti was right.
