
A clock struck one.

"No," said the stiffly polite girl, "the city editor isn't in. No, our
reporters are covering the flight. Sorry."

A clock struck two.

"Sorry."

Jeffrey sighed. What else was there? The Research Bureau. The
Department of Defense, the Pentagon. _The Times_, _The Herald_, _The
Post_. He hadn't wanted to take his story to the newspapers, but they
had given him a last, futile hope. Now, even they had refused to listen.

There was still _The Mirror_. The twilight news. The love nests, the
exposÃ©s, the screaming headlines that most papers were saving for the
second coming of Christ.

Jeffrey found himself walking up dark, thinly carpeted stairs, pushing
a faded swinging door. Then someone was leading him forward. Sounds of
clacking typewriters and rustling papers filled the air.

The photograph and the moon-stone were in his hands. He was thrusting
them forward.

"This is my proof," he mumbled automatically.

For a long time his surroundings were like the terrain in a dimly
remembered dream. Then hands helped him into a chair.

A deep voice grunted at him. "Okay, proof of what?"

Jeffrey blinked. His brain fought to break through the wall of
weariness that enclosed it. He saw that the man before him was
middle-aged, balding, small-eyed. His trace of a smile was not
unpleasant.

"What's it all about, fellow?" the man asked, leaning back in his chair.

_Thank you, God_, thought Jeffrey, _that I have another chance._

He began again. 1957, the H-bomb, Project Pandora. Lord, if he could
only show this man the images that still hung in his memory!

But how could you capture the dizzying blackness of space, the hypnotic
silver of stars, and recreate their magic in mere words? How feeble
were words. They were like broken fingers trying to carry sand.

Nevertheless, the man listened. Jeffrey came to the words, "So the moon
it was!" And even then the man said nothing. Jeffrey went on:

"Our first rocket was ready by the summer of '59. We named it the
_Marilyn_--after Marilyn Monroe, the top glamour gal of those days.
And I was in the ship's first crew.

"Our take-off wasn't like this circus today. No music, no speeches, no
parades. We had a shot of brandy in the morning. We shook hands with
our friends and puffed on cigarettes and the C.O. said a prayer. Then
we took off."

Jeffrey weighed words and memories in his mind. "It'd take me a year to
tell about how space looks and how the moon is; and how you feel when
all the things you love are in a cloud-wrapped ball 240,000 miles away.
Or how it feels to see your buddies slip through the paper-thin crust
that covers parts of the moon and go down into nothingness, just as if
the hand of God wiped them out of the universe.

"Anyway, we hit the moon. The ship stayed long enough for us to build
a dome. Then we split the crew in half. Five stayed, the rest shuttled
back to Earth for more supplies. Three months later the second rocket,
the _June Randy_, was ready, and life got a little easier. We began
to get an occasional case of beer and mail from home. Our families
thought they were writing to Pandora City. To think that those little
three-cent letters would go all the way to Luna would have seemed a
lunatic's dream to them.

"By the summer of '61 Project Pandora was completed. We had two domes
and four launching stations, each a hundred miles apart. The missiles
on the launching platforms were like those beds of nails the yogis are
supposed to lie on--only a hundred times bigger. And each nail was a
uranium-lithium-tritium-headed rocket.

"1961 slipped by, and '62 and '63. There were a few aborted revolutions
on earth, a few moments of tension, but no war."

A veil of loneliness seemed to fall over his vision, separating him
from his listener.

"Go ahead," the man prompted him.

"Well, new faces appeared in our crews. The older fellows were given
memory-washes so they wouldn't start blabbing when they returned to
Earth. Psychiatry was pretty primitive in those days. The treatment
wasn't much more than hypnosis, creating an artificial psychic block in
their minds. After a while, it seemed like men were coming and going
like figures on a treadmill--but, me, I stayed on."

"You stayed on? Why?"

Jeffrey thought for an instant. "Because there were two kinds of
loneliness for us. One was being on the moon, in silence and emptiness.
The other was being on Earth, in the midst of life and knowing the
biggest secret in the world and not being able to talk about it. And of
the two kinds of loneliness, to me, the last was the worst. So I stayed
on the _Marilyn_."
