
For the space of a minute the small-eyed man was silent. His fingers
toyed with the stone and the photograph.

Finally he murmured, "Suppose I publish your story. How much do you
want for it?"

To Jeffrey, the words were like April sunshine streaking into a
cobwebbed winter attic.

"You--you want to use the story? You believe me?"

"I didn't say I believe it. I don't give a damn whether it's true or
not. My job is to sell newspapers. I asked how much you want for it."

"Nothing," Jeffrey said softly.

The small-eyed man grunted. "We could flood the city with the afternoon
edition. People are buying anything with a moon angle. The Russians
wouldn't shout for joy, but there shouldn't be any harm done at this
late date."

His eyes brightened. "We might get away with it. We've got your stone.
We could demand that Everson locate the place where you got it and
either prove or disprove your story. Why, that'd be good for months!"

He laughed. "What a damper we'll put on _this_ celebration! We'll make
the city seem like a morgue. It's a dirty, lousy trick, but by God
it'll sell papers!"

Jeffrey leaned forward, squinting. "A dirty, lousy trick? What do you
mean?"

"Skip it." The man's enthusiasm was rising. He was like fizzing soda in
a thumb-stoppered, shaken bottle. "We got to get this story in print.
Hey, Marty! Get the dicto-typer over here! I've been waiting all my
life to yell stop those presses. Marty! _Stop those goddamn presses!_"

"What did you mean?" Jeffrey insisted. "How can telling people the
truth be a dirty, lousy trick?"

The small-eyed man laughed again. "You don't think folks'll _like_ this
story, do you? You don't think they'll feel like celebrating when they
read this, do you? It's a cinch they won't start cheering _you_ for
what you did almost twenty years ago! Say, wait'll Everson sees that
moon pic plastered on my front page. _There's_ an angle! A pic of
Everson's expression! Hey, Marty! Get me--"
