
The big car swept along the superhighway as silently as a floating
cloud. The speedometer read 160. Ken explained that was 160 kilometers,
or about 100 miles an hour. He buzzed it up to 200 kilometers once when
some youngsters in a souped-up sports car sought to race with them.

"They use solar power," Ken explained, "but it's broadcast power and
wouldn't work in a car sent back to the past. They made one like the
picture, which just showed the outside, and I suppose they assumed we
use turbo-jets back in this period. It must be pretty ancient to them."

"Why would people from the future want to set up a store in the
basement under the Eat-A-Bite Restaurant?" protested Jack.

"Not _from_ the future--_in_ the future. For some reason, that
basement door is in a time fault. People from now can go through it
into the future and come back, and bring inanimate objects with them.
But the people from the future can't come back to the past for some
reason--that's why they can't go out and get things themselves, and
that's why they want us to bring them rare antiques, like newspapers
and books."

"Maybe," said Jack doubtfully. "How did you guess all this?"

"A little deduction. I had some conversations with Edigo while I was
shopping there. He said he just dug that basement as the lower floor of
his new fifty-story building; but actually that basement's been there
for years and is supposed to be empty. It belongs to old man Caswell,
who owns the building the Eat-A-Bite's in, and God knows how he's going
to react if he ever walks into it and finds that store. And it's not
just that. The costumes, the strange objects they have for sale, even
that peculiar accent."
