
It was a twenty-five mile sail to Rollins Island. The Jackson boys and
I loaded the boat with clothing mostly. Food was stored on the island.
I took along four pairs of oyster rakes, I didn't have the heart to
leave them behind. And Bill and Joy took a huge ball of linen twine,
ropes, corks, rings, all the makings for a drift net.

Unexpectedly, Carter showed up at the last minute by helicopter to see
us off. He jumped up on the wharf smiling.

"About those chickens," he said, "they're condemned stock of course.
Better take them along. And keep an eye on them. Want to know how they
make out in a new environment."

Then he took me aside and handed me a small book.

"Lot of information in this. Written by a small animal ecologist. Read
it. Read it carefully. Think about it. Read it again, and think some
more. Got that?"

I said, "Sure. I'll read it." I had the notion he was trying to get
something over without actually coming out with it flat, so I listened
carefully.

He paused for a while, wiping his glasses and pursing his lips.

"That island's not right for fulmars and gannets. Wrong environment.
Never have multiplied as they should. Whole thing should be
concentrated north. Plenty of cliff sites north. None here. Won't do.
Terns, yes. Fulmars and gannets, no. Trouble is, WFI is tenacious.
Stupidly so. It works, they say. I tell them it works badly. It's going
to take a lot to move them: total failure of a colony or two.

"You're intelligent, George. Put two and two together. Wish you luck."

He shook my hand quickly and jumped into the helicopter. Bill and Joy
had to call me twice before I could come out of a trance of bewildered
speculation. In a daze I helped the boys load our last piece of
equipment: a huge barrel of salt they had pilfered from the local Food
Plant.
