
There were dozens of them, frisking and cavorting in the air. He gazed
at them full of wonder. They pretended to fight, stooped at one another,
soared off in long spirals to stoop and soar and stoop again. One
flashed by him, a golden palomino that shone like polished wood. The
wind whistled in its wings.

Away to the left, the cliff fell back in a wide crescent, and nearly
opposite him a river tumbled over the edge. A pool on a ledge beneath
caught most of the water, and there were hippogriffs drinking. One side
of the broad pool was notched. The overflow fell sheer in a white plume
blown sideways by the wind.

As the sun grew hotter, the hippogriffs began to settle and browse on
the islands that floated past. Not far below, he noticed, a dozen or so
stood drowsily on an island that was floating through the cliff's shadow
toward his ledge. It would pass directly below him.

With a sudden resolution, Johnny jerked his rope down from the tree
above and tied the end to a projecting knob on the cliff. Slinging on
his pack again, he slid over the edge and down the rope.

The island was already passing. The end of the rope trailed through the
grass. He slithered down and cut a piece off his line.

It was barely long enough after he had tied a noose in the end. He
looked around at the hippogriffs. They had shied away when he dropped
onto the island, but now they stood still, watching him warily.

Johnny started to take an apple out of his pack, then changed his mind
and took a piece of honeycomb. He broke off one corner and tossed it
toward them. They fluttered their wings and backed off a few steps, then
stood still again.

Johnny sat down to wait. They were mostly chestnuts and blacks, and some
had white stockings. One was piebald. That was the one which, after a
while, began edging closer to where the honeycomb had fallen. Johnny sat
very still.
