
Ten days later, he called in Amos Handworthy and demonstrated what he
had done.

"I've modified both guns so that you and the Marshal will now shoot at
each other with ultra violet light. You'll both wear vests that are
sensitive to this light. I monitor the hits electrically by measuring
the resistance of those areas where a bullet would severely injure a
man. Nothing will occur unless you or the Marshal are hit in such an
area. Furthermore, you can both continue to shoot for an indefinite
length of time. However, I've altered the Marshal's aiming mechanism
so that if he's hit in a vital spot, he won't shoot as accurately.
Similarly, if you are hit, a defocussing mechanism operates on your
light bulb so that your gun is no longer as accurate. And instead of
the recorded voice, if either of you is hit in the heart, your gun goes
dead."

Amos Handworthy's eyes began to glow with a fire such as Manny
Steinberg had never seen and it excited him that his work had brought
on so wonderful a response. He slipped the new vest on Handworthy,
handed him the wired holster and gun, and stepped back. After
fastening his belt and readying himself, Handworthy drew as before and
fired swiftly at the Marshal, who was firing back almost as rapidly.
Suddenly Handworthy stopped and looked at his gun in dismay.

"My trigger's locked," he cried.

"He's killed you," said Manny drily. "You beat him to the draw, but
he's hit you in the heart."

"I see," said Handworthy slowly. "Then it looks like I've got a hell of
a lot more practicing to do."
