
It was a full month before Manny Steinberg was invited back to the
Mansion, and with great pride his host demonstrated how he killed the
Marshal, _every time_.

"I've got him set for his fastest draw, too," said Handworthy. "At this
point, he's just no match for me."

"I guess that wraps it up," said Manny, knowing full well that it
couldn't end this way. "You're just too damned good."

Amos Handworthy shook his head slowly.

"You don't believe that and neither do I. Its an unfair battle, unfair
because we've excluded the most vital element of all."

"What element is that?" said Manny although the answer popped into his
head even as he spoke and he began to envision the approach that had
to be taken.

"There's no _fear_ in this situation," said Handworthy. "When two men
were in an actual shootout they were both afraid of being killed. But
the Marshal is oblivious to fear and so for the most part am I. Suppose
for instance in some way you could make him shoot better if I were
nervous and shoot less accurately if I were deadly calm."

"There is a way to do that," said Manny. "I can electrically monitor
your vasomotor reflexes by means of your pulse and sweat reactions.
Then I would program the Marshal's reflexes in just the way you
suggest. But the thing I can't understand is how such a step would
have any real meaning. Why in God's name would you ever be frightened?
There's nothing in this situation to make it happen."

"I have a very vivid imagination," said Handworthy. "As a child I had
no playmates and still I populated an entire world in my mind, every
one a distinct person. Don't you see, I can project myself into feeling
that I'm in the _real_ life and death situation just as long as the
Marshal becomes a creature sensitive to fear."
