
As a matter of fact, there was very little seaweed. The water was warm,
and the days that followed were cloudless perfection; the nights were
cool, and there was always a steady sea-breeze.

At first, for a few days, Don Gerson found himself moving in a pattern
which resembled his normal life very closely. He awoke at seven; in
fact, on the first morning, he found himself compelled to rise at once
and dress. That first morning, he had an odd, lost feeling; there was
no office to go to, no schedule of work to follow, no fixed orbit.

He began the first day by shaving and cooking himself what, for
him, was a large breakfast. He thought about going for a swim, but
remembered the rule he had been given once, about not swimming for two
hours after eating.

The clothes that hung in the closets were not what he would have
selected himself, but they were comfortable, and they fitted. He
dressed in slacks and an open-necked shirt; then proceeded to
investigate the library.

For a few days his pattern was like that of this first day. He read
the back-number piles of news magazines, the books analyzing current
politics and history; he ate at regular intervals, and twice he went
swimming for short periods. On both occasions he wore the trunks, and
the second swim was very short. He came out of the water feeling as if,
as he said to himself, "there wasn't anything _to_ it." In his life,
swimming alone had never seemed to happen.

Don hardly noticed the pattern beginning to fray apart. On the fifth
day he overslept, and did not get up until nearly eleven. That night he
felt wakeful, and at midnight, he ate sardines and beans. He left the
cans on the kitchen table, and did not drop them into the pit behind
the house as he had been doing.

The next morning he did not rise till noon. In fact, he did not even
wind the alarm clock. It ran down the same day, and he tried to guess
at the time when he set it.
