
An hour later he sat morosely in a tiny tavern he had long known,
hidden up the blind alley known as Artemis Lane. For half a century it
had been familiar to him as the hangout for his kind.

"So you see how it is," the bartender was concluding. "At this rate
there won't be any more. With all the old-timers dead or in the Swamp,
how in hell can _I_ keep running. No sir, this joint is for sale--for
what it'll bring. Drink up and have another."

Captain Karns took the proffered drink from the grizzled tavern-keeper,
but despite its cheering nature--for it was purest "comet-dew"--he took
it glumly. Never in all his long and active life had he heard so much
evil news at one sitting. Another of his old pals had come to grief,
and all because he had touched at Mercury. Mercury, it appeared, was
poison to all his tribe. The record was too consistent to be accounted
for by coincidence. Coincidents do not occur in strings.

"And what makes it stink all the worse," persisted the indignant
bartender, bitterly, "not a damn finger is lifted to stop the flow of
trilibaine. The town is lousy with it. Half these natives stay hopped
up all the time."

"I thought the Federals had cleaned that up ten years ago," commented
Hank Karns.

"It's back," was the laconic retort.

Hank Karns said nothing. The fact that three of his buddies were
languishing in the malarial swamps of Venus, continually subject to the
indignities of brutal guards was uppermost in his mind. And besides
that, two others--Bill Ellison and Jed Carter--had died on Mercury
when their ships mysteriously blew up on the take-off. That, too, had
an especial significance, for those two were the only members of the
trader tribe who had any sort of reputation as fire-eaters. In their
youth, of course, all of them had been bolder and more truculent, but
as they gained in experience they learned that there is more to be
gained by soft words than bluster. If Hank was to secure the release of
his friends it must be by guile, the use of a cunning superior to that
employed by their common enemies.

_If_ he was to secure! There was no if about it. He must. For it was
Bob Merrill and Ben Wilkerson who had once rescued him, Hank Karns,
from an even more deadly situation. More than twenty years ago that
had been, on far-off Io, and Hank Karns winced at the memory of it. On
that occasion he had, through the machinations of the notorious Von
Kleber gang, been convicted and sentenced as a pirate. Ten hateful
and horror-filled days and nights he had spent in the mines of Sans
Esp√©rance, the Federal Penitentiary, digging radioactive ores. Two of
his friendly competitors heard of it and pled for a new trial wherein
it was shown that he had been sent up through perjured testimony to
screen the trial of the real culprits. The wave of public opinion they
started then did not subside until Von Kleber and his outlaws were put
finally behind the bars.

No, there was no choice. Cappy Wilkerson and Cappy Merrill must be
released and Ellison and Carter avenged. How? That remained to be seen.

"Wa-al," drawled Hank Karns, elaborately, now that his mind was made
up, "I'll be seein' you. I'm taking a little trip into Mercury and
back."

The bartender shook his head ominously.

"No fool like an old fool," he said, and he didn't laugh.

In the rain-lock, or the vestibule outside the bar, Karns stopped. He
felt inside the lining of his vest and after much fumbling produced a
dog-eared memorandum book. He ran through the yellowed pages until he
found one covered with cryptic entries. They appeared as if made long
ago, but several interlineations in various colored inks showed that
amendments had been made from time to time since the original writing
of them.

Halfway down was the group P2, and what followed had been
twice changed. The line that stood in lieu of them read:
"Vbg--wickerware--4-1/2B, Eros." Hank Karns read the line through
two or three times, then snapped the book shut and replaced it in
its hiding place. He carefully buckled up his slicker and jammed his
sou'wester tight upon his head. Then he stepped forth into the steamy
drizzle of Artemis Lane.

He sloshed his way through mud and water until he came to the main
drag. He turned to the right and splashed along until he came to the
corner where Erosville Road turned off. He took the turn and plugged
along for four blocks of its twisting, boggy length. A dozen steps
farther on he lifted his eyes and peered from beneath dripping brows
at the signs about. Across the street was what he sought--a sagging
awning crudely painted with the legend; "An Shirgar--Dealer in Native
Basketry." On the bedewed window below was another, "Hir Spak Anglass."

Hank Karns stopped under the awning long enough to squish some of the
water out of his shoes, then he entered. A swarthy, turbanned Venusian
met him, rubbing his hands together obsequiously and bowing jerkily at
every step.

"Yiss, milord. Valcom to mizrable shop. Vat vishes milord?"

"Wickerware," said Hank Karns, tartly, for him. "For export."

"Ah," breathed the representative of An Shirgar. "Zhipluds, eh? You
pay?" Captain Karns shook his head, and pointed to the private door at
the back.

"Ah, vickware. No pay. Maybe boss ut see, eh?"

"Yep, trot him out," said Hank Karns, and began fingering the clever
basketware of the Venutian hillmen. He knew it would be quite a while
before the Earth-man came, if this was operated like the Callistan
branch had been, twenty years before. After a time, without quite
knowing how he knew, he was aware that someone else was in the
showroom, studying him from a distance.

"Howdy," he said, turning around. "I kinda wanted to finance a deal
that's too big for me to swing--is this the place?"

"Might be," said the man non-committally. He was a typical Terrestrian
business man, not much over thirty, baldish, and plainly not given to
foolishness. "I don't touch anything as a rule unless I see a profit in
it. And no chance of loss. What is your collateral?"

Hank Karns mentioned his ship. The man snorted, and started to turn
away. "You're wasting time."

"I got a ring, too. It's a--well--sorta heirloom."

The man came back. He was still not interested, but he took the ring
Karns offered him and weighed it in his hand. Then he applied a loup to
his eye and examined it closely.

"You've hocked this before?"

"Yes," chuckled Hank Karns. "And got it back, too."

"Hmmm," said the man. "It looks genuine. What do you want?"

"I--uh--am dropping into Mercury to do a little trading. When I get
back I might want to buy a chair or so--mebbe a houseful of stuff--and
just wanted to be sure my credit was good."

"You speak in riddles, my friend," said the man with a curious, tight
little smile. He was tossing the ring thoughtfully all the while.

"I'm only a lone trader," said Hank Karns, wistfully, "and don't know
no better. Supposing you keep the ring while I'm gone--to appraise it,
so to speak. All I want to know is who to call for when I get back.
_If_ I get back."

The man pocketed the ring.

"Where will the call come from?"

"I dunno. Space, mebbe. Jail, mebbe."

"My radio call is care assistant dockmaster, Venusberg sky-yard.
Mention berth twenty-three somehow. As to the jail angle, I do not as a
general thing do business with people in jail. In that event, I might
send you a lawyer, in consideration of this ring. Tell Rashab, the
night turn-key--you'll know him by the double scar on his chin--that
you want to see Mr. Brown. I can't guarantee he'll go, but if he does,
bear in mind he's a very cagy fellow and that Venusberg jail is studded
with dictaphones and scanners. If what you have in mind smacks at all
of illegality, it's likely he'll walk out on you."

"Yep," snapped Hank Karns, beginning to shut the clasps on his slicker,
"I'll remember. Only I don't think it'll be a lawyer I'll need. If the
joint is lousy with spy-machines, what I'll want is an old friend--a
man of my type."

The man, whatever his name was, for he had still not given it, laughed
outright for the first time. He slapped the Lone Trader on the back.

"Men of your type, you old humbug, are extinct as the horse."

Hank Karns looked up to laugh back at him, but he was gone. In his
place stood the turbanned Venutian, still doing washing motions with
his hands.

"Milord no like vickvare? Milord go now?"

"My Lord, yes. I go now."

Karns jammed on his sou'wester, took a deep breath, and pushed open
the door. A half hour later he was making ready for the take-off for
Mercury. It was a shot in the dark, but it was a chance he had to take.

"To hell with that," thought Hank Karns. Then briskly to the boy he
had brought with him this trip as a general utility man, "Hey, Billy,
look alive! Bear a hand with getting them there rakes stowed!"
