
A long silence was finally broken by the sick man. But when he spoke,
his voice was so strange and uncanny that the servant hastened close and
peered anxiously into the fever-flushed face of the sufferer.

"Hiram--I must tell you--a secret," came in a laborious, almost
sepulchral, whisper.

Biggs came closer.

"Bring a chair and sit down. I must talk to you."

As the old servant again leaned forward, the sufferer hesitated; then
with an obvious effort he began.

"Hiram, I am going to give you some instructions which you must obey to
the letter. Will you promise to keep them?"

"I swear it, sir," with great earnestness.

"Good! Now, if this fever seals my lips and the doctor pronounces me
dead----"

"Please, sir," Biggs broke in, tears streaming down his furrowed cheeks,
but his master continued in the same subdued voice, "Whatever happens, I
am not to be embalmed--do you hear me?--not embalmed, but just laid away
as I am now."

"Yes, sir," in a choked voice, which fully betrayed the breaking heart
behind it.

"And now, Hiram, the rest of the secret." He paused and beckoned Biggs
to lean closer.

"In my vault--in the mausoleum, I have had an electric button installed.
That button connects with a silver bell. Lift up that small picture of
Napoleon, there upon the wall."

His hands trembling as with the palsy, Biggs reached out and lifted
aside the picture hanging near the head of the bed, and there revealed
the silver bell, fitted into a small aperture in the wall. Then, with a
sob, he fell back into his chair.

"Hiram"--in a whisper--"after they bury me, you are to sleep in this
bed."

With a cry, the old man threw out a horrified, expostulating hand.
Catching it feverishly, the banker half raised himself in bed.

"Don't you understand?" he cried fiercely. "I may not be dead after all.
Remember grandfather! And Biggs--if that bell rings, get help--quick!"

Suddenly releasing his hold, McMasters fell back limply among the
pillows.
