
The elderly man, swelling like a turkey cock, advanced upon him.

“Is that your horse, sir?”

“No sir; I wouldn’t claim any such animal,” retorted Laramie,
ruffled anew.

“Right. It happens to be my horse. You’re fired.”

Laramie gasped.

“What’s that?”

“You’re fired, my man.”

“Me?”

“Yes. I’m owner of these cattle and these horses. I’m full owner of
the Seventy-seven. Understand? I employ cowboys, not busters. I’ll
have nobody in my service who abuses animals. They tell me this
horse is perfectly gentle when he’s been handled properly. I can see
that for myself. You’re ruining him. No doubt you meant to show off
a little, but that doesn’t go with me. Give your time to the
foreman, and he’ll pay you to date. If you intend to be a cowboy, I
hope this will be a lesson to you. Br-rumph! No words, now.” The
oracular dignitary had finished.

But Laramie could muster no words of utterance before ladies. There
they were, those two, standing aloof and eying him with look that
scorched. And--“If you intend to be a cowboy,” the stout gent had
said. “If you _intend_ to be a _cowboy_!” Suffering cats! He,
Laramie Red, intend “to be” a cowboy! And--“They tell me this horse
is perfectly gentle when he’s been handled properly!” So he was. The
deviltry having been ridden out of him, he’d be as meek as Moses; as
witness now--a staid old fool!

Fired! That verbal mandate waited upon no further repetition.
Laramie swung from the astonished Thunder and commenced rapidly to
unsaddle. Tex, who had been busied elsewhere, came hurrying with
gait interrogative.

“What’s the matter, Laramie?”

“There’s nothin’ the matter with me. I’m turnin’ in this hawss,”
growled Laramie, engaged.

“What’s wrong with the hawss, then?”

“Nothin’. He’s plump gentle--a putty little hawss. But I’m quittin’.”

“You! No! Why’s that?”

“Been fired, aint I? No man need tell me that more’n once.”

“Who told you?”

“Yore big boss over yonder.” Laramie indicated with jerk of red
head.

“What for?”
