
He discovered a seat in the chair-car; and having sat right there
and slept right there so as to hold it and himself down, he arrived
in the morning at Kansas City. He stumbled out upon the platform of
this union station that clanged and buzzed, pent with energy.

Now the vague city, meshing him about, lured his farther incursion.
Somewhere there was the swell cafe, and the pulsing life, and the
thee-ater, and the bed with sheets, and the nightshirt and the store
clothes. And somewhere, he fully comprehended, there were seductive
bars, welcoming such as he--a man off the range, with his pockets
lined.

People casually viewed him as he stood. They could not mistake him:
the typical cow-man, veteran showing in every wrinkle of face and
garb: a red-headed, sorrel-visaged, puzzled migrant from the land of
chaps and saddle.

As he stood blinking, those “brute” instincts surged within him
again. Powerful thirsty he was--it had been a long time. Hungry, too!
His money burned in his jeans. It clamored for air and action. His
feet twitched.

“Gee gosh!” quoth Laramie, scratching his thatch. “I got to do
something. Mebbe I’d better eat a snack just to ca’m me down. ’Twont
make no difference when I find the genuyine lay-out. It’ll give me
strength to look careful, for the best’ll be none too good for me.”

He wandered amid reverberant gates and corridors, and boiling
crowds, and his nose and ears led him to the dining counter--to the
warm aroma of food and the clatter of laden dishes. He sat upon a
stool, awkwardly forking it with his crooked legs and his tipsy
boots, and he shoved his hat back and squared before the menu. Over
this he pondered, running it through with gnarled forefinger.
