
Except for a few others--not more than one in a hundred thousand, I
guess--who wake up and figure things out. And they mostly go crazy and
run themselves to death, or else turn mean. Mostly they turn mean. They
get a cheap little kick out of pushing things around that can't push
back. All over the world you find them--little gangs of three or four,
half a dozen--who've waked up, but just to their cheap kicks. Maybe
it's a couple of coppers in 'Frisco, a schoolteacher in K.C., some
artists in New York, some rich kids in Florida, some undertakers in
London--who've found that all the people walking around are just dead
folk and to be treated no decenter, who see how bad things are and get
their fun out of making it a little worse. Just a mean _little_ bit
worse. They don't dare to destroy in a big way, because they know the
machine feeds them and tends them, and because they're always scared
they'd be noticed by gangs like themselves and wiped out. They haven't
the guts to really wreck the whole shebang. But they get a kick out of
scribbling their dirty pictures on it, out of meddling and messing with
it.

I've seen some of their fun, as they call it, sometimes hidden away,
sometimes in the open streets.

You've seen a clerk dressing a figure in a store window? Well, suppose
he slapped its face. Suppose a kid stuck pins in a calico pussy-cat, or
threw pepper in the eyes of a doll.

No decent live man would have anything to do with nickel sadism or dime
paranoia like that. He'd either go back to his place in the machine and
act out the part set for him, or else he'd hide away like me and live
as quiet as he could, not stirring things up. Like a mouse in a dynamo
or an ant in an atomics plant.

(The Professor went to the window and opened it, letting the sour old
smoke out and the noises of the city in.)
