
"Harry, could I go with you some day--tomorrow? I'd like to see where
you work, meet your friends--"

"Flora, are you out of your mind? You've seen the commuter car; you
know how crowded it is. And what would you do when you got there? Just
stand around all day, blocking the aisle? Why don't you appreciate
the luxury of having your own place, a little privacy, and now two
Full-walls--"

"Then could I go somewhere else I could take a later car. I want to get
out in the open air, Harry. I ... haven't seen the sky for ... years,
it seems."

"But ..." Harry groped for words, staring at Flora. "Why would you want
to go up on the roof?"

"Not the roof; I want to get out of the city--just for a little while.
I'll be back home in time to dial your dinner...."

"Do you mean to tell me you want to spend all that money to wedge
yourself in a verticar and then transfer to a cross-town and travel
maybe seventy miles, packed in like a sardine, standing up all the way,
just so you can get out and stand in a wasteland and look back at the
walls? And then get back in another car--if you're lucky--and come back
again?"

"No--I don't know--I just want to get out, Harry. The roof. Could I go
to the roof?"

Harry came over to pat Flora awkwardly on the arm. "Now, take it easy,
Flora. You're a little tired and stale; I know. I get the same way
sometimes. But don't get the idea that you're missing anything by not
having to get into that rat-race. Heaven knows _I_ wish I could stay
home. And this new wall is going to make things different. You'll
see...."
