
The joy-bar was less than half full at this early hour, but noisy enough
for midnight. A concealed battery of robotics ground out a brassy blare
of music, integrating random pitches--selected by electronic
servo-computers--into the jarring minor cacophony that had become the
latest rage.

The early patrons were intently watching the long telescreen above the
bar when Alcorn came in. A quarterstaff bout--a frantic, bloody sport
revived from God only knew how many centuries before--was in progress
there, matching a heavily muscled Nordic with a sandy bristle of hair
against a swarthy, hairless Eurasian. The Nordic, from his twisted
stance, had a couple of broken ribs already; the Eurasian's right ear
dangled redly.

Alcorn seated himself opposite Jaffers' operative in an isolated booth
and fed the coin-slot for drinks.

"Drink," he said grimly. "You're going to be drunker, my friend, than
you've ever been in your inquisitive life."

The uproar died out before the drinks arrived. Only the blaring music
machines and the blood-roar of the telescreen remained, and a suddenly
placid bartender turned both down to a murmur.

The rest was routine to Philip Alcorn's experience. Men at the bar
turned to each other like old friends, forgetting submerged frustrations
as readily as they forgot the vicious slash-and-parry on the screen. The
place drowsed in a slow and comfortable silence.

The Jaffers man tossed off his drink and dialed another. Alcorn, raising
his own, remembered Janice Wynn's letter in his pocket and set the glass
down, untasted.

The clippings, she had said, would give him an idea of what he was up
against.

His hands shook so violently when he ripped open the envelope that he
almost dropped it.
