
Eight clippings were inside, small teleprinted scissorings from digest
newssheets that were available at any street-corner dispenser. He read
them quickly, and was more puzzled than before until he realized that
they fell into two general groups of interlocking similarities.

Four were accounts of unexplained disappearances. A moderately
successful research chemist named Ellis had vanished from the offices of
his New York chemical firm; a neighborhood pharmacist in Minneapolis, a
spinster tea-shop proprietress in Atlanta and a female social worker in
Los Angeles had disappeared with equal thoroughness, completely baffling
the efforts of police to find them.

None of these people had been of more than minor importance, even in his
own immediate circle. Alcorn felt that these events had been reported
only because the efficiency of missing-persons bureaus made permanent
disappearance next to impossible. Even so, only one clipping--that on
Ellis, the New York chemist--bothered to run a photograph.

The other four accounts dealt with violent deaths, all rising from
sudden outbreaks of mob hysteria. Two of the victims had been small-town
clergymen, a profession which made their lynchings as startling as they
were inexplicable; both had been respected members of their little
communities until the day--the date was less than a week old--their
congregations rose up en masse and tore them limb from limb.

The remaining two of the second group had died in different fashions. A
doctor in a Nevada mining hamlet, making a late call, had been set upon
by the patient's family, knocked unconscious and shot. A Girl Scout
leader in Mississippi had been thrown over a cliff by her young charges.
