
By the time Alcorn was composed, he discovered that he had chosen a
course without conscious intent. Dark, open country fled past beneath,
pricked here and there with racing points of light that marked the main
artery of northward surface traffic. Familiar mountain shapes loomed
ahead, indicating where he was bound.

He was heading, lemminglike, for his cabin in the Catskills.

The knowledge made him wonder if he could trust the instinct that had
decided him. Jaffers might or might not know of the cabin; certainly
Janice Wynn knew, for she had said she would pick him up there at 21:00.

Kitty, when he failed to call her as he had promised, would know at once
where he had gone, and would either radophone him or come to him
quickly.

He frowned unhappily over the possibilities, caught between an eagerness
to see Kitty and a dread of having her involved in his trouble. He
considered taking Kitty and fleeing in his borrowed turbo-copter to some
isolated place where the two of them might make a fresh start, and gave
up the idea at once as worse than impractical.

Jaffers would find him without difficulty, now that he knew what to look
for. And there was the progressive reality of his visions--for he had
ceased to think of them any more as hallucinations. The coming of Janice
Wynn and the inexorable sharpening of his awareness proved that reality
beyond doubt.

He found the twin-notched peak that landmarked his cabin. The cool of
night and the mountain quiet, when he climbed out, were a tonic to his
abraded nerves. There was a nostalgic calling of night-birds, the clean
breath of pines and, from some tangled rocky slope, the faint pervading
perfume of wild honeysuckle.

He had not guessed how sharp his awareness had become until he realized
that someone was waiting for him inside the cabin.
